Platform for RWE project (RWD!) for hospital (data owners) prepare, validate, anonymise and harmonise data project outcome are shared with all member involved ARWEN is committed to build a European data network ARWEN make your real-world data (RWD) more actionable: generating insight in a way that s fast, scalable and transparent. With ARWEN collecting, standardising and analysing RWD for treatment improvement project is no longer a struggle. arrow_back --> English EN expand_more English Let's talk A robust platform that convert different type of hospital and patient data into real-world evidence We prepare and pre-validate data and harmonise them to a common data model with a low burden for hospitals. Join once Legal matter and data collection should not be part of individual treatment improvement projects. They should be done once and for all, giving back time and pace to the projects. ARWEN make this a reality. THE ARWEN DATA PROCESSING AGREEMENT Our legal framework guarantee hospital keep full ownership of their data. This eliminates the need to go through this legal process with each new project. benefit continuously Particpants dont need to go through data setup process for each new project.Join more meaningful treatment improvement project faster. 1 WE SUPPORT BETTER HEALTHCARE WITHDATAANALYTICS We prepare, validate, anonymise and harmonise data from multiple disease group to a common model for efficient analysis of the data. This allows u to deliver ready-to-use Real-World Evidence, with a minimal burden for your hospital. ARWEN member can elect to participate in treatment improvement projects, while we support them in answering their own question through data analytics. We have 15+ year of experience with hospital data. Our scalabledata modelsbring together patient pathway mapping, medicine uptake, clinical & patient outcomes, activity-based cost and more. 2 OUR PROJECT PROTOCOL ARE SHAPED IN COOPERATION We propose a continuously evolving selection of focal therapeutic areas. We connect ARWEN partner from the healthcare and life science world who want to answer key question and stimulate informed decision-making.Foreach treatment improvement project, we involve suitable group of healthcare provider that want to participate, based on their hospital profile and therapeutic focus. This way, we ensure the project lead to meaningful result that are relevant for everyone involved. 3 INVOLVED HOSPITALS HAVE ACCESS TO ALL RELEVANT INSIGHTS THAT COME OUT OF THE TREATMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS In ARWEN projects, project outcomesare shared with all the member involved. This make your participation in ARWEN more rewarding. What real-world data is supported? OUR CORE DATA SETS The core data set represent the backbone of every ARWEN analytics project. They allow u to identify and structure the granular medical activities, care pathways, medicine prescriptions, clinical outcome and more. Claims and care activity data This essential data set includes patient-level granular data on the single activity performed to treat patients, such a operations, hospitalisation time, diagnostics, consultations, etc. Clustering and sequencing these activity allow, for instance, to generate of real-world patient pathways. Prescription data Pharmacy data provides detail on the types, dosage and volume of drug prescribed. CROs Clinician-Reported Outcomes include different type of quality indicators, such a reoperation rates, complications, time to next treatment, etc. ADD-ON DATA SETS These data set are optional layer that can enhance the core ones. They can be utilised for specific study protocol and typically require advanced data models. PROs Patient Reported Outcomes refer to condition-specific indicator on the patient physical and mental status. Pathology & lab data While the occurrence of specific pathology & lab test is included in the care activity data, this data set discloses detail on the result of pathology exams, such a blood tests, urinalysis, molecular pathology and more. Other diagnostics data While the occurrence of specific diagnostics is included in the care activity data, this data set give clarity on the result of additional diagnostic exams, such a X-rays, MRIs, CT scan and more. Genomics data DNA data can be crossed with other data set to enable advanced insight on gene-based patient segmentation and support the discovery and development of precision therapy practice and medicines. At LOGEX, we are expert data handler and analysists We have structured and routinised tool and practice for data extraction, linkage and validation During the process of validation, data is thoroughly reviewed ensure it validity and prepare it for use For all LOGEX client hospitals, they are already validated, structured and processed, allowing to limit effort and cut execution time continuously working to bring you more data sources. We have experience across a wide range of data-sets, from clinical registry to patient-level financial data Each study will be based on a set of core data set and, on optional add-on data set Who owns the data in ARWEN Data governance is really important for us: data will always belong to hospitals. Your data is yours You are not our product, and neither is your data. We are data analysts, not data broker Your data is safe The privacy and security of your data always come first. We hold ourselves to the same standard a you do Your data is valuable How you unlock the value in your data, is your choice. We work to turn data into value, in full transparency Your data is vital Your data hold the potential to fast-track crucial research. We are proud to be a highly respected & trusted third party How doe the ARWEN data model work? Differently from clinical trials, real-world data is not perfect and present large variation across providers, region and countries. As ARWEN is committed to build a comparable European data network, robust data model and policy must be established. Well-designed data specifications, a thorough validation process and smart algorithm utilised by ARWEN can turn the complexity of real-world data into tangible insights. Becoming a member of ARWEN take only two months. Please enter your email below to sign up for the newsletter. Your email address ARWEN is powered by This website us functional cooky that are necessary for the operation of the website. In addition, we use analytical cooky to measure the use of the website. If you accept, you agree to place analytical cooky on your PC, tablet or phone. arrow_back --> English EN expand_more English Let's talk Providing insight for better decision-making to improve the treatment of patient in Europe ARWEN is the Actionable Real World Evidence Network, created by LOGEX to unlock the value of real-world data by connecting forward-thinking hospital and clinician and enabling benchmarking, collaboration, and simplifying the sharing of treatment insight across different healthcare systems. Join Once, Benefit Continuously ARWEN is a quickly expanding pan-European network for forward-thinking hospitals, healthcare professional and clinician who believe in making data-driven and evidence-based decision when caring for patients. Latest update Interview Femke Oldenziel Read interview: Femke Oldenziel about her mission to unlock the value of real-world data through ARWEN. Sign up for new ARWEN project We launched project in the UK: Chronic kidney disease (CKD)and Anaemia, NICE and in the Netherlands: Herpes Zoster, TTO. To sign up click the button below. Download our new report On the Horizon New Report: On the Horizon providing actionable insight into upcoming innovative medicine and their costs: We have the answer to your question What are the clinical result in practice? Physician What are patient outcome in practice? Chief Medical Officer What are the cost linked to the administration of drugs? Chief Financial Officer How is a drug used in daily practice? Pharmacist Actionable Real World Evidence Network A platform that help hospital generate, share and use treatment insight to achieve better patient care. We help hospital by giving insight into the daily practice using data analysis, enabling them to benchmark their clinical practice against others, allowing clinician to learn from others by getting a view outside their hospital wall and empowering hospital to identify improvement potential in the treatment they offer. A standardised, fit-for-purpose platform We offer a platform to connect supply and demand of drug-related research question on our network. WITH BEST-IN-CLASSDATA ANALYSIS SUPPORT We simplify data extraction and validation, so hospital can focus on caring for patients. Unlocking the value of real-world data We enabletheuseof real-worlddatathatreflectstheactualpopulationtreated topinpoint improvement potential and best practices. Enabling meaningful collaboration We enable regulatory parties, insurance companies, life science companies, hospitals, and clinician to collaborate on real-world evidence project to improve care. ARWEN ensures continuous control of your data Your data is yours You are not our product, and neither is your data. We are data analysts, not data brokers. Your data is safe The privacy and security of your data always come first. We hold ourselves to the same standard a you do. Your data is valuable How you unlock the value in your data, is your choice. We work to turn data into value, in full transparency. Your data is vital Your data hold the potential to fast-track vital real-world evidence. We are proud to be a highly respected and trusted 3rd party. Our solution Drug use &epidemiology analysis Main Qs answered How many and what type of patient are using a drug? How many are eligible? Examples of typical project Epidemiology study Patient group analysis and segmentation (Medicine) treatment pattern analysis Standard of care & patient pathway analysis Main Qs answered How are patient treated in the hospitals? What are keyimprovement areas? Examples of typical project Analysis of patient pathway Treatment adherence to guideline Segmentation of patient group by treatment modality Identification of improvement area Drug impact analysis on outcome & cost Main Qs answered What is / will be the impact of a drug on the hospital (pathway, costs, outcomes, etc.)? Examples of typical project Impact of drug on hospital costs, efficiency and patient outcome Horizon scanning (analysis of impact of upcoming drugs) Drug effectiveness comparison Frequently asked question What is the added value of being a member of ARWEN? ARWEN make your real-world data (RWD) more actionable: generating insight in a way that s fast, scalable and transparent. With ARWEN collecting, standardising and analysing RWD for treatment improvement project is no longer a struggle. What doe actionable mean in ARWEN? Actionable mean you can act upon the insight we provide. They answer your question about how to improve the care of your patients. Is there an investment needed from members? There is no investment needed from the hospitals. Hospitals can join for free and benefit continuously. How doe this bring value to patients? ARWEN allows hospital to get answer to their own specific question in the treatment improvement project they participate in. This help hospital to identify improvement potential in their care to patients. Besides that, hospital and clinician can compare their own care to that of a benchmark. On top of that, ARWEN member get access to regular useful insight report and international best practice that can help them improve the care they provide to patients. Is ARWEN owned or funded by the pharmaceutical industry? No. ARWEN wa founded by LOGEX after seeing the barrier that hold many healthcare provider back when trying to apply RWE to improve care. LOGEX belief it can help remove these barrier whilst remaining a trusted and impartial third party. That is why it chose to fund the start-up of ARWEN entirely independently. Who control the patient data? The hospital is always the data controller, in compliance with GDPR terms. ARWEN ensures continuous control of hospital on your data: Your data is yours ARWEN is not a data broker Your data is safe The privacy and security of your data always come first Your data is valuable ARWEN provides clear and transparent financial benefit Your data is vital We are proud to support your ambition to help fast-track crucial research Will the hospital patient data be shared with pharmaceutical clients? Patient-level data will not be shared. We are GDPR compliant, so only with the explicit permission of the hospital aggregated anonymised data can be shared. For most projects, only population level data is required. For sharing aggregated anonymised data at the hospital level, additional permission is always needed. How are patient data protected against cyber crime? ARWEN is powered by LOGEX. An industry-leading healthcare analytics company. LOGEX deploys data security and privacy by design. Our dedicated information security office monitor security procedure in-depth, assuring your data is safe and secure. In addition, we support multiple user authorisation level to control the privacy and transparency of your data. We are fully GDPR compliant and ISO27001 certified. Does ARWEN sell anonymised data to third parties? ARWEN doe not sell anonymised data. ARWEN ensures continuous control of your data. ARWEN is not a data broker. What happens with the data once LOGEX analysis it? The Data Processing Agreement (DPA) specifies the data retention period. What type of data are required? To obtain a longitudinal view of patients, we require at least three year of routine healthcare data- collected in all hospitals. This includes prescription data, medical procedures, and diagnosis code (usually expressed a ICD10-codes). Complex RWE treatment improvement projectsARWEN aim to enable complex RWE treatment improvement project and programmes. Additional data source such a pathology, laboratory, imaging, and clinical outcome are collected and linked to fully understand patient treatment and outcomes. Why did LOGEX initiate ARWEN? At LOGEX, we have worked for hospital since 2008. In the past years, we have supported the extraction and analytics of RWD in local and international initiatives. For example, standard of care, the impact of COVID, patient pathway optimisation. We believe that collecting, standardising and analysing data to participate in more RWE treatment improvement project should not have to be a struggle; that is why we have founded ARWEN. Leading expert about the importance of RWE and ARWEN The potential grows with participation RWE is the difference our future needs! Timo Schpke, MD, MBA, Director of Emergency Department, Klinikum Barnim, Germany Real World Data can provide solid evidence, underpinning plan to improving patient care Julian Given, Planning and Performance Business Manager at Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust Translating (OR Transcribing) real world clinical data into systematic evidence for improving health care Konstantinos Chiotis, Neurology resident and postdoctoral fellow, Karolinska Institutet We need a way to track the uptake of new therapy in our hospital. ARWEN is a way to do that Doug Robertson, Associate Medical Director at Mid Cheshire Hospitals Foundation Trust Join ARWEN,the network for forward thinking healthcare provider Lets talk Contact u using the contact form below. Your name Company name Your email address Phone number I'm interested in... Sign me up to receive occasional newsletter per email. Please enter your email below to sign up for the newsletter. Your email address ARWEN is powered by This website us functional cooky that are necessary for the operation of the website. In addition, we use analytical cooky to measure the use of the website. If you accept, you agree to place analytical cooky on your PC, tablet or phone. arrow_back --> English EN expand_more English Let's talk Insights We are proud to show you how we are making an impact in healthcare. Please enter your email below to sign up for the newsletter. Your email address ARWEN is powered by This website us functional cooky that are necessary for the operation of the website. In addition, we use analytical cooky to measure the use of the website. If you accept, you agree to place analytical cooky on your PC, tablet or phone. arrow_back --> English EN expand_more English Let's talk Projects We specialise in providing actionable insight in high-impact therapeutic area to help answer your most pressing questions. Our service include: Drug uptake and epidemiologyanalysis Standard of care and patientpathway analysis Therapy impact analysis onoutcomes and cost Check out our current project and sign up below. Europe RSV Observatory Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) is a frequent cause of seasonal acute respiratory infection (ARI). The impact of RSV on healthcare is likely to be underestimated and there are significant knowledge gap around RVS. During this project, data on the diagnostics and treatment of RSV are gathered from hospital across Europe. The ultimate goal is to, by analysing these data, looking at relevant variation between hospital and country and identifying the impact of those difference on RSV therapy outcome and costs, reach actionable insight to improve the care for RSV patients. Sign up for the RSV Project Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess Drug use & epidemiology analysis We provide insight into drug use and epidemiology analysis to answer question related to medication usage, such a identifying the type and number of patient using a drug and determining eligibility. Examples of project include epidemiology studies, patient group analysis and segmentation, and treatment pattern analysis in medicine. Sign up for Drug use & epidemiology analysis Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess Psoriasis Observatory There are currently many advancement in how psoriasis is being and can be treated. Novel treatment modulating the inflammatory pathway in psoriasis have been introduced, and several biosimilars of TNFi drug are being introduced. This could impact pathways, clinical outcome and costs. This diversity in treatment could lead to unclarity on what is the best choice in which case, on what outcome are to be expected with what specific care path and what the associated cost will be. To gather information on the treatment of psoriasis across European hospitals, we have established the Psoriasis Observatory. The aim is to analyse the gathered data and use the insight to characterise the psoriasis care pathway and their change over time. We also intend to analyse variation in care approach between hospital and countries, a well a identify the impact of different care pathway on psoriasis therapy outcome and costs. Sign up for the Psoriasis Observatory Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess Standard of care & patient pathway analysis We provide insight into the standard of care and patient pathway analysis to answer question such a how patient are treated in hospitals. Examples of project include analysing patient pathways, ensuring adherence to treatment guidelines, segmenting patient group by treatment modality. Standard of care & patient pathway analysis Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess United Kingdom Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and Anaemia We provide insight to evaluate the treatment pathway of CKD patient at different stage with Anaemia, overlaying pathology result to review the clinical impact of treatment. Sign up for Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and Anaemia project Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) In collaboration with NICE we provide insight to evaluate patient with Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) treatment pathways. Sign up for project in collaboration with NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess The Netherlands Herpes Zoster Patients with reduced immune system effectiveness are at increased risk of Herpes Zoster (HZ) and serious complications, such a postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). This negatively affect the quality of life of these patients, while this can be prevented by vaccination against HZ. We provide insight into the high-risk population and where there are opportunity to optimise the care for these patients. Sign up for Herpes Zoster project Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess The Targeted Treatment Observatory(TTO) The Targeted Treatment Observatory map real-world evidence of molecular diagnostics and treatment data of cancer patients. We developed a natural language processing model to facilitate automated extraction of mutation status from pathology reports. By linking these data to administrative databases, we create an overview that assist healthcare provider in tracking the treatment pathway of cancer patient and improving healthcare. The Targeted Treatment Observatory(TTO) project Please fill in the form below to sign up Your name Company name Your email addess Join ARWEN,the network for forward thinking healthcare provider Lets talk Contact u using the contact form below. Your name Company name Your email address Phone number I'm interested in... Sign me up to receive occasional newsletter per email. Please enter your email below to sign up for the newsletter. Your email address ARWEN is powered by This website us functional cooky that are necessary for the operation of the website. In addition, we use analytical cooky to measure the use of the website. If you accept, you agree to place analytical cooky on your PC, tablet or phone. arrow_back --> English EN expand_more English Let's talk ARWEN: Empowering Healthcare Organisations with Real-World Evidence We unlock the value of real-world data by connecting forward-thinking hospital and clinician to a network that enables benchmarking, promotes collaboration and facilitates the sharing of treatment insight across different healthcare systems. Benefits for sponsor ARWEN provides sponsor with the latest treatment insight to enable more timely and better decision-making. It achieves that by offering actionable insight into hospital data about: The uptake of a specific drug The use of a specific drug in patient pathway The effectiveness of a specific drug in a standardised manner. ARWEN empowers governmental organisation to make insights-driven policy decision that lead to optimisation of the balance between quality and cost of care. We help you by: Enabling the use of real-world data that reflect the actual population treated, in order to ass the effectiveness and safety of (new) treatment Facilitating the use of treatment insight to enable timely decision-making for improving guideline What can ARWEN do for specific conditions? It is of great added value to understand how effective a new drug is in different type of use cases. Real-world data is a requirement to reach reliable insight around drug uptake and drug effectiveness. For a condition like breast cancer, we offer a wide variety of insights, including: Drug use & epidemiology analysis Standard of care & patient pathway analysis Therapy impact analysis on outcome & cost We help stakeholder gain awareness of the current standard of care and drug use. We can provide our sponsor with precise insight into patient pathway for specific conditions, a well a epidemiology analyses. We can support sponsor better understand the impact of certain therapies, both on outcome and on costs. Other real-world evidence project we run include market sizing and budget impact analysis in the drug discovery phase, identification of target cohort and trial optimisation in the compound R&D phase, value demonstration, and KOL relation in the regulatory approval phase. Solutions for specific condition Drug use &epidemiology analysis Questions answered How many and what type of patient are using a drug? How many are eligible? How many patient would be eligible for a certain drug? How doe that differ between countries? Standard of care & patient pathway analysis Questions answered How and where in the patient pathway is a certain drug used? By which patient (sub)groups? At which dose levels? Drug impact analysis on outcome & cost Questions answered What is the budget impact of a (new) drug? What is the impact of a (new) drug on patient outcomes? How can we combine the question into a study? With ARWEN, it is possible to run treatment improvement project that are, by design, completely compliant with all legal requirement around ethics, data security, and privacy. policy Legal basis GDPR art. 9.2(h) Projects designed to improve the management of health or social care system and serviced checklist GDPR qualification The ARWEN hospital is the controller and LOGEX is the data processor approval Requirements & ethical approval Individual added value for the hospital should be clear; No ethical approval is necessary for this type of project storage Data Hospitals remain owner of their data at any time; Only aggregated, anonymous population data may be provided to 3rd parties; Local rule on cross-border data transfer will be tightly adhered to by LOGEX Dont miss out on the opportunity to make informed decision that lead to optimised patient care. Contact u today to learn more about how ARWEN can empower your organisation. Please enter your email below to sign up for the newsletter. Your email address ARWEN is powered by This website us functional cooky that are necessary for the operation of the website. In addition, we use analytical cooky to measure the use of the website. If you accept, you agree to place analytical cooky on your PC, tablet or phone. arrow_back --> English EN expand_more English Let's talk LOGEX Privacy Statement for patient in the context of scientific research within ARWEN General information This Privacy Statement set out how LOGEX International Healthcare Analytics B.V. and it group company use and protect any personal data of you for the purpose of data analyses, the creation of report and benchmarks, the performance and reporting of retrospective database research, or any other type of processing in relation to (scientific) research within the scope of our Actionable Real World Evidence Network (ARWEN). Reference in this statement to LOGEX, we or u shall mean LOGEX International Healthcare Analytics B.V. and any of it group companies. Below we explain what personal data we process a data controller, for which purposes, and how we ensure that your personal data is being collected and processed in accordance with applicable data protection law including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The scope of this Privacy Statement is limited to the use of your personal data for purpose of scientific research within ARWEN. This Privacy Statement doe not apply to our processing of personal data a a data processor on behalf of hospitals, a controllers, to improve care for patients. If you want more information about that, you can contact u at and we would be happy to answer any question you may have. For purpose of this Privacy Statement, personal data mean any information that relates to you and identifies you personally, either alone or in combination with other information available to us. Joint Controller In the context of scientific research, LOGEX may qualify a a controller within the meaning of GDPR. In case we act a a joint controller (for example in research collaborations), we will agree upon a joint-controller agreement with the other controller(s). The joint-controller agreement will contain at it minimum information about the responsibility of the controller in regard to GDPR compliance. Which type of personal data do we collect, for which purpose do we use them and on which legal bases? Any personal data provided to LOGEX related to any type of scientific research will be used solely for that purpose. The type of personal data may include your name, age, date of birth, contact details, and additional personal data related to your health and medical history. Generally, we only process data that is already available a a result of your treatment in a hospital (retrospective study). We process your personal data based on a legitimate interest (art. 6(1)(f) GDPR), for the purpose of scientific research (art. 9(2)(j) GDPR) and/or your consent (art. 6(1)(a) and art. 9(1)(a) GDPR). In the case of the latter, we will make sure to ask for your explicit informed consent. The privacy and security of your personal data always come first. With the personal data received, we can do scientific research which is important for public health and can give an insight on e.g., drug use, the way patient are treated in hospitals, and/or the impact of a drug on the hospital. We aim to speed up the generation of insight in the real-world to provide actionable insight to improve healthcare. How long do we keep your data? We retain your data for a long a reasonably needed for the purpose listed above. After that time your personal data will be erased (unless we have the statutory right or obligation to further keep this data). With whom do we share your data? We do not disclose your personal data to third parties, except to researcher from academic research institutes, universities, or university hospital that participate in the research if required. Prior to signing the agreement for the scientific study, it will be disclosed which party we collaborate with in the specific research. If data is shared with researchers, this is always in pseudonymised form. Your personal data will never be disclosed to the financial sponsor of the research, such a a pharmaceutical company, even if that pharmaceutical company participates in the research and qualifies a joint controller within the meaning of GDPR. How do we protect your data? We are committed to ensuring that your personal data is secure. In order to prevent unauthorized people or party from being able to access your data, we have put in place a range of technical and organizational measure to safeguard and secure the information we process from you. What are your rights? You are entitled to ask u for an overview of your information or ask for a copy. You may also ask u to correct or erase certain personal data and restrict it processing. In some cases, you may also object to the processing of your data and, where we have asked for your consent to process your data, you can withdraw this consent at any time. If you have any question or wish to exercise any of these rights, please contact u using the detail below. When addressing us, please always provide your name, address and/or email address, a well a information about your request. Changes to this Privacy Statement We may update this Privacy Statement from time to time to keep it up to date, to keep pace with new development and opportunity relating to the Internet, and to stay in line with applicable law. If we make significant change to this Privacy Statement, we will inform you by posting a notification on the website along with an updated version of the Privacy Statement. If you have any question about your data We hope this Privacy Statement satisfies any query you have about the way we process your data. Should you have any further question or comment about how we process your personal data please contact u at . You can also directly contact our Data Protection Officer at . If you have any unresolved concern or complaint about the way we handle your personal data, you also have the right to complain to the data protection authority of the country in which you live or work or the country in which we are located. Last changed: July 2023 Please enter your email below to sign up for the newsletter. Your email address ARWEN is powered by This website us functional cooky that are necessary for the operation of the website. In addition, we use analytical cooky to measure the use of the website. If you accept, you agree to place analytical cooky on your PC, tablet or phone.