AMdEX is primarily intended for data owner who want to share data and the technology supplier that make this possible. AMdEX fill in a piece of the data puzzle by ensuring that agreement that are made are enforced digitally. Together, the data owner and technology supplier decide whether they want to use AMdEX. MENUMENU Home2023-06-27T08:19:46+00:00 Control your dataAMdEX accelerates the transition to a fair data economy AMdEX is developing a digital notary. Offering legal contract to organisation that want to share data. Even the most sensitive data. AMdEX translates your data sharing agreement into machine-readable policies, that can automatically be enforced. Saving you manual work, time and money. Development of AMdEX the digital notary that enables secure and controlled #datasharing wa possible thanks to financial support from the European Regional Development Fund. Today, the team successfully accounted for the grant. Thank you @EfroWest! #data #dataaccess #EFRO 40 organisation collected a mix of private and public #data in a smart building. They wanted to share this sensitive #sensordata via the Internet. A challenging usecase for AMdEX! Read the interview: https://amdex.eu/news/smart-building-usecase/ #datasharing #dataaccess #EFRO #EFRD Sharing private data for a good cause always involves a trade-off. Between #gdpr, #privacy and need for high quality analyses. Read about the @tweetsunl usecase in our interview with researcher @lthomasvb: https://amdex.eu/news/unl-usecase/. #datasharing #data #EFRO #EFRD Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Home2023-06-27T08:19:46+00:00 Control your dataAMdEX accelerates the transition to a fair data economy AMdEX is developing a digital notary. Offering legal contract to organisation that want to share data. Even the most sensitive data. AMdEX translates your data sharing agreement into machine-readable policies, that can automatically be enforced. Saving you manual work, time and money. Development of AMdEX the digital notary that enables secure and controlled #datasharing wa possible thanks to financial support from the European Regional Development Fund. Today, the team successfully accounted for the grant. Thank you @EfroWest! #data #dataaccess #EFRO 40 organisation collected a mix of private and public #data in a smart building. They wanted to share this sensitive #sensordata via the Internet. A challenging usecase for AMdEX! Read the interview: https://amdex.eu/news/smart-building-usecase/ #datasharing #dataaccess #EFRO #EFRD Sharing private data for a good cause always involves a trade-off. Between #gdpr, #privacy and need for high quality analyses. Read about the @tweetsunl usecase in our interview with researcher @lthomasvb: https://amdex.eu/news/unl-usecase/. #datasharing #data #EFRO #EFRD Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU About2023-05-25T08:32:32+00:00 About AMdEXRead on (or click the links) to find out more about: What is AMdEX?AMdEX is an innovation fieldlab initiated by , , , and and co-funded by the . In this field lab party collaborate to develop and test service to translate real world policy for sharing data into digital agreements. These can be digitally enforced, monitored and controlled. Enabling party that wish to share data to be compliant with law, regulation and consortium policies. We do this by researching, testing and deploying a neutral infrastructure that provides and executes reliable data sharing agreements, which: technology service provider can integrate into their product and services. are language- and operating system agnostic, so user remain free to choose their IT infrastructure, development platform or programming model. The AMdEX infrastructure and agreement are not owned by a few party but operate a a cooperative facility by all and for all. Why is data sharing needed?In the Information Age, data ha the potential to drive growth, foster societal efficiency, and create fairer systems. However, several barrier hinder the realisation of these prospects. One of these is that only a small percentage of all data is actually used, shared and analysed. Because of uncertainty about security, privacy and other legal issue such a data ownership, organisation do not share data at all or resort to individual agreement for exchanging data. Which mean we are missing big opportunities. Benefits of AMdEXAMdEX democratises data sharing, promotes data sovereignty, foster innovation, and provides company with cost savings, speed, and a competitive advantage in the data-driven landscape. Benefits for organisation Cost saving AMdEX provides digital data-sharing agreement a a service, eliminating the need for costly manual work. High speed AMdEX allows party to quickly spin up secure and fair data-sharing solutions, replacing one-off solution that take a long time to implement. Competitive edge AMdEX enables company to deploy and iterate faster with a focus on innovation, rather than managing infrastructure, giving them a competitive advantage in the market. Benefits for society Creates a fair level playing field AMdEX enables organisation with fewer resource to participate in complex and highly regulated data sharing collaborations, by making it easier to show that their (software) service are compliant with law and regulations. Accelerates data sovereignty AMdEX empowers data owner to maintain control over their data by enforcing rule for it use digitally, fostering data privacy and security. Accelerates innovation by offering trust for data sharing, AMdEX encourages more organisation to share their data, leading to increased innovation and collaboration. USPs of AMdEXAMdEX stand out from existing data sharing solutions. Check out these unique selling propositions. Focus on policy AMdEX facilitates the translation of real world rule to digital agreement that can be digitally enforced, monitored and controlled. This way AMdEX make a clear connection between software system that support data sharing and the laws, regulation and consortium policy that govern them. Collaborative governance AMdEX will be placed in the hand of a cooperative entity. This collaborative approach empowers user and member to actively participate in the development and evolution of AMdEX. By having a say in it future, user can ensure that the solution remains responsive to their need and the changing dynamic of the data market. Auditable mechanism AMdEXs data exchange mechanism are auditable, providing traceability and accountability in data transactions. This transparency enhances trust and confidence among participants, reinforcing the integrity of the data sharing process. Auditable mechanism enable thorough assessment and enable the resolution of any conflict or dispute that may arise. Who is AMdEX for?AMdEX is primarily intended for data owner who want to share data and the technology supplier that make this possible. AMdEX fill in a piece of the data puzzle by ensuring that agreement that are made are enforced digitally. Together, the data owner and technology supplier decide whether they want to use AMdEX. AMdEX is not limited to Amsterdam, but aspires an (inter)national function. The development is fully committed to cooperation with the national government and the European Commission. We foresee a global network of similar data exchange. Other data sharing initiativesAMdEX distinguishes itself by acknowledging that it is not a standalone solution for all data sharing issues. Recognising the complexity of data sovereignty, AMdEX understands that technical, semantic and interface interoperability challenge also need to be addressed. In this regard, AMdEX encourages collaboration with other initiative such a GAIA-X, iShare, IDS, Fiware and many more. By engaging in collaboration with these initiatives, AMdEX aim to coordinate development plan and ensure alignment in solving the broader challenge related to data sharing. Rather than duplicating efforts, AMdEX seek to leverage the expertise and contribution of these initiative to create a cohesive ecosystem that address all aspect of data sovereignty. Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Contact2023-05-25T08:48:37+00:00 Contact team AMdEX () For any query on AMdEX, please contact Willem Koeman. () () () () () () Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Game2023-02-22T08:14:32+00:00 AMdEX GameSharing your data and giving access to your sensitive information can be daunting. What about privacy? Will competitor steal your insights? Are you still the owner of your data? Play the AMdEX Data Exchange Simulator for a fun way to find out about the added value of AMdEX. Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Downloads2023-12-05T13:16:10+00:00 AMdEX downloadsClick to view, save or share any of these AMdEX downloads. 14 September 2023 AMdEX Acceleration Event30 November 2023 AMdEX Meetup Sensor data14 September 2023 27 July 2023 AMdEX Summer drinks6 July 2023 AMdEX Community Meeting11 May 2023 AMdEX newsletter16 March 2023 10 November 2022 AMdEX newsletter16 June 2022 11 March 2022 2 December 2021 AMdEX Infographic1 December 2021 AMdEX Meetup #11 July 2021 Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Usecases2022-09-28T21:02:03+00:00 UsecasesThe AMdEX partner work with various on accelerating the transition to a fair data economy. Read more on some ofthe usecases that are currently being tested in the AMdEX fieldlab. Aircraft maintenance data marketPredictive Maintenance is a highly competitive field in many industries. Machine learning allows the industry to transition from fixed to variable maintenance interval of part through prediction. Training data is required for this, preferably on all global flight conditions, from arctic to desert conditions. There is no company that collect all this kind of data with it flights. AMdEX provides the possibility to set up data market for maintenance data in which company can share this data with each other. Read for more info. Smart building to come cleanHomes, office- and public building get smarter every day, using sensors. Much of the generated data isnt publicly available: it too private or commercially sensitive to share widely. Anonymised data about building usage, empty soap dispensers, air-quality and presence of people would enable facility service provider and mobility planner to effectively manage crowds, cleaning building and public areas. AMdEX is working on sharing restricted set of data, ensuring the privacy of building users. MarineterreinNumerous sensor have been installed at the Marineterrein in Amsterdam, with a variety of owner (including the City of Amsterdam, research institutes, and others). The collected data wasnt accessible to third parties, while businesses, artists, local authorities, journalist and resident have a need for it. In this case, to a variety of user under varying condition and at various level of detail. AMdEX support both the data owner and individual user for example a journalist in sharing the data securely. Research Data ExchangeSURF and UvA are developing a Research Data Exchange (RDX) for researcher and industry to collaborate. One of the case focus specifically on sharing data from pedagogical and educational research to ass government policy. Read the interview with (University of Amsterdam) explaining about the importance of the RDX usecase. This usecase will also apply to the resulting data publication in which the entire lifecycle of data processing by various group / industry can be traced, thus ensuring transparency in Open Science. Usecase partners|||| | | | | | | | || Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU News2021-12-22T13:42:03+00:00 Data sharing between 40 different party AMdEX ha [...] Privacy model and synthetic data helped a lot [...] Finding a balance between 'abstract' and 'practical' AMdEX [...] Standard agreement can teach the machine AMdEX ha [...] Boosting research and science by sharing data AMdEX [...] AMdEX is approaching the end of it first phase [...] Sensors safely share data through AMdEX At H20 [...] Join AMdEX on September 14th to learn more about [...] Guide to balancing risks, trust and reward Successful [...] Join AMdEX at this informal networking opportunity on July [...] Endorsing partner Raymond ter Riet (Luminis) Luminis ha [...] A clean office provides a great work environment. Not [...] Endorsing partner Sander Klous (KPMG) AMdEX is proud [...] We're happy to announce that KPN IoT is now [...] Developing software for safe, inter-organisational data exchange and computation [...] Attend a fascinating discussion at MozFest 2023 to hear [...] AMdEX Community Meetup 10 November 2022 A great [...] AMdEX is moving forward in facilitating a safe and [...] Data promise to unlock solution to many of today's [...] There is a lot of interest in AMdEX and [...] London-based IT news platform ComputerWeekly.com interviewed Willem Koeman on [...] Want to rewatch the presentation of Joep Meindertsma (Argu) [...] There is a lot of interest in AMdEX and [...] IT news platform AG Connect interviewed Willem Koeman, on [...] 1 Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Participate2023-04-12T12:56:44+00:00 Participate a an Endorsing Partner Are you interested in sharing data and exchanging information with others? Establishing a data sharing collaboration can be difficult. Giving access to commercially valuable or privacy-sensitive asset is risky. That is why were developing AMdEX, an online data notary. AMdEX set and enforces the term and technique you want and need, to protect the data youd like to share. Endorsing partnership Our support the development of AMdEX through in-kind contributions, such a expertise, data, technology and/or PR. They support the open availability of experience and knowledge gained during this process. In turn we will acknowledge your participation a endorsing partner on our website. Participation enables you to take part in and the . Want to join AMdEX a an endorsing partner? Then directly. And have a look at . Find out more about AMdEX Watch the short explainer video. Follow u on and to get our latest update first. and receive our newsletter and invite to our events. Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Endorsing partners2023-06-22T08:58:14+00:00 Endorsing partnersAMdEX is proud to work with endorsing partners. These organisation support the were currently developing, or they facilitate an . Together, were accelerating the transition to a fair data economy. Would you like to discus possibility to ? Please us. Read the . Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Newsletter2021-12-22T13:40:56+00:00 Want u to keep you up to data? Fill in this form to receive our newsletter and invite to AMdEX Meetups. Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Over vollesmaken Deze auteur heeft nog geen informatie verstrekt.So far vollesmaken ha created 6 blog entries. 2023-02-07T08:53:02+00:00 Academic institution have shown interest in making research data [...] Computable: Data notary AMdEX get warm welcome2023-02-07T08:53:02+00:00 2023-02-07T08:53:02+00:00 Dutch news platform RTL Nieuws shared an article (in [...] RTL Nieuws: Amsterdam get data exchange for sharing data2023-02-07T08:53:02+00:00 2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 Reputed ICT-news platform Computable published an article by journalist [...] Computable: AMdEX ha started2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 The platform for IT professionals, AG Connect, published anarticle(in [...] AG Connect: AMdEX to enable controlled data sharing2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 In the podcast-series BNR Digitaal (in Dutch) journalist Herbert [...] BNR Digitaal podcast2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 AMdEX is set to become a neutral, independent infrastructure, [...] Research organisation and commercial party start developing the new Amsterdam Data Exchange2023-02-07T08:53:03+00:00 Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | | MENUMENU Cookie Policy2023-12-15T13:26:40+00:00 Cookie Policy This cookie policy ha been created and updated by . Want to know more?About AMdEXWhy an internationally trusted exchange of data is important UsecasesExamples that show potential and the possibility of data exchange Newsletter subscription Submit Laat dit veld leeg al je een men bent: PartnersSponsorsAMdEX is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Province of Noord-Holland. Copyright 2024 | All Rights Reserved | Powered by | |