We prepare and pre-validate data and harmonise them to a common data model with a low burden for hospitals. Legal matter and data collection should not be part of individual treatment improvement projects. They should be done once and for all, giving back time and pace to the projects. ARWEN make this a reality. Our legal framework guarantee hospital keep full ownership of their data. This eliminates the need to go through this legal process with each new project. Particpants don’t need to go through data setup process for each new project. Join more meaningful treatment improvement project faster. 1 We prepare, validate, anonymise and harmonise data from multiple disease group to a common model for efficient analysis of the data. This allows u to deliver ready-to-use Real-World Evidence, with a minimal burden for your hospital. ARWEN member can elect to participate in treatment improvement projects, while we support them in answering their own question through data analytics. We have 15+ year of experience with hospital data. Our scalable data model bring together patient pathway mapping, medicine uptake, clinical & patient outcomes, activity-based cost and more. 2 We propose a continuously evolving selection of focal therapeutic areas. We connect ARWEN partner from the healthcare and life science world who want to answer key question and stimulate informed decision-making.For each treatment improvement project, we involve suitable group of healthcare provider that want to participate, based on their hospital profile and therapeutic focus. This way, we ensure the project lead to meaningful result that are relevant for everyone involved. 3 In ARWEN projects, project outcome are shared with all the member involved. This make your participation in ARWEN more rewarding. The core data set represent the backbone of every ARWEN analytics project. They allow u to identify and structure the granular medical activities, care pathways, medicine prescriptions, clinical outcome and more. This essential data set includes patient-level granular data on the single activity performed to treat patients, such a operations, hospitalisation time, diagnostics, consultations, etc. Clustering and sequencing these activity allow, for instance, to generate of real-world patient pathways. Pharmacy data provides detail on the types, dosage and volume of drug prescribed. Clinician-Reported Outcomes include different type of quality indicators, such a reoperation rates, complications, time to next treatment, etc. These data set are optional layer that can enhance the core ones. They can be utilised for specific study protocol and typically require advanced data models. Patient Reported Outcomes refer to condition-specific indicator on the patient physical and mental status. While the occurrence of specific pathology & lab test is included in the care activity data, this data set discloses detail on the result of pathology exams, such a blood tests, urinalysis, molecular pathology and more. While the occurrence of specific diagnostics is included in the care activity data, this data set give clarity on the result of additional diagnostic exams, such a X-rays, MRIs, CT scan and more. DNA data can be crossed with other data set to enable advanced insight on gene-based patient segmentation and support the discovery and development of precision therapy practice and medicines. At LOGEX, we are expert data handler and analysists… … continuously working to bring you more data sources. Data governance is really important for us: data will always belong to hospitals. You are not our product, and neither is your data. We are data analysts, not data broker The privacy and security of your data always come first. We hold ourselves to the same standard a you do How you unlock the value in your data, is your choice. We work to turn data into value, in full transparency Your data hold the potential to fast-track crucial research. We are proud to be a highly respected & trusted third party