The Big Data Value Association (BDVA) is an industry-driven organisation with a mission to develop an innovation ecosystem that enables the data-driven digital transformation of the economy and society in Europe. BDVA ha over 230 member all over Europe and a well-balanced composition of large, small, and medium-sized industry a well a research and user organizations. We focus on advancing in area such a big data technology and services, data platform and data spaces, Industrial AI, data-driven value creation, standardisation, and skills. BDVA ha been the private side of the H2020 partnership Big Data Value cPPP, it is a private member of the EuroHPC JU and is also one of the founding member of the AI, Data and Robotics Partnership. In the BDVA Task forces, our member contribute to the European data, and AI R&I agenda and develop guideline and strategic roadmaps for industry and policymakers. Our event give opportunity to build collaboration and co-create projects. Through the BDVA community, the member gain higher visibility on the European level. Our service are designed to give timely update on all the latest development in the field of data and AI. BDVA is an open and inclusive community and is always eager to accept new member who share these ambitious objectives. These include Data Users, Data Providers, Data Technology Providers and Researchers. BDVA enables existing regional multi-partner cooperation, to collaborate at European level through the provision of tool and knowhow to support the co-creation, development and experimentation of pan-European data-driven application and services, and know-how exchange. The General Assembly (GA) is conformed by all the BDVA member (only Full member have voting rights). BDVA GA approves the general policy of the Association on the basis of proposal of the Board of Directors and give recommendation to the Board of Directors for it application. The Board of Directors (BoD) is selected by the General Assembly (2-year mandate). The Board of Directors is in charge of reaching the objective of the Association. It follows the resolutions, instruction and recommendation adopted by the General Assembly. The GA also elect the President, Vice President(s) and Treasurer. The Secretary General (SG) is responsible for the day-to-day administrative management of the Association with the support of the BDVA Secretariat and Office Staff. Task Forces (TFs) are the main instrument to develop BDVA activity and are established to take care of specific matter within the ‘Objectives’ of the Association under the authority of the BoD. TFs may focus on sector-specific or cross- disciplinary issue related to BDV. Find more about BDVA Task Forces here. industry-driven organisation; mission: develop an innovation ecosystem that enables the data-driven digital transformation of the economy and society in Europe; focus on advancing in area such a big data technology and services, data platform and data spaces, Industrial AI, data-driven value creation, standardisation, and skill