IMI 2 project Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme aiming to develop key enablers to support health care system transformation through the use of big data. The initiative will develop platform for integrating and analysing diverse data sets, focusing on outcome that matter to patient and generating meaningful insight that will help improve health care. BD4BO four disease-specific project so far: ROADMAP (Alzheimers Disease), HARMONY (Hematologic Malignancies), BigData@Heart and PIONEER (Prostate Cancer) These disease-specific project are supported by the Coordination and Support Action (DO->IT) a an overarching coordination structure (completed in 2019), and the European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) project which will be a federated network of relevant data sources. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Overcoming big data challengesImproving health outcome http://bd4bo.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/BD4BO_SUBS_v05.mp4 Experts from the BD4BO programme have some recommendation on how to make the European Health Data Space really work for patients, doctor and researcher BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Overcoming big data challengesImproving health outcome http://bd4bo.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/BD4BO_SUBS_v05.mp4 Experts from the BD4BO programme have some recommendation on how to make the European Health Data Space really work for patients, doctor and researcher BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search About BD4BO About BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme aiming to develop key enablers to support health care system transformation through the use of big data. The initiative will develop platform for integrating and analysing diverse data sets, focusing on outcome that matter to patient and generating meaningful insight that will help improve health care. http://bd4bo.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/BD4BO_SUBS_v05.mp4 In a set of project in exemplary disease areas, Big Data for Better Outcomes will contribute to healthcare system change through: -Definition of outcome metric -Protocols, process and tool to access high quality data -Methodologies and analytics to drive improvement -Digital and other solution that increase patient engagement BD4BO ha four disease-specific project so far. (Alzheimers Disease), (Hematologic Malignancies), and (Prostate Cancer) are already producing deliverable to enable the efficient use of big data and contribute to improving healthcare system and patient outcome and further project are to come. These disease-specific project are supported by the Coordination and Support Action (DO->IT) a an overarching coordination structure (completed in 2019), and the European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) project which will be a federated network of relevant data sources. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Projects Projects The Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 (IMI2) Big Data for Better Outcomes (BD4BO) wa launched in 2016 a an umbrella programme with the overall objective of realising the potential of Big Data in the context of European healthcare; for promoting innovative method through harmonising, accessing and analysing data. The BD4BO programme comprises several disease-specific project focusing on Alzheimers disease- Real World Outcomes Across the Spectrum for Better Care (ROADMAP), hematologic malignancies- Healthcare Alliance for Resourceful Medicines Offensive against Neoplasm in Hematology (HARMONY), cardiovascular diseases- Big Data for Better Hearts BigData@Heart (BigData@Heart), and prostate cancer (PIONEER), with potential others at a later date. These disease-specific project are supported by the Coordination and Support Action (DO-IT) a an overarching coordination structure (completed in 2019), and the European Health Data Networkand Evidence Network (EHDEN) project which will be a federated network of relevant data sources. The Programme includes the following projects: BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Partners Partners London School of Economics and Political Science Novartis National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency European Cancer Patient Coalition European Multiple Sclerosis Platform Semmelweis University Imperial College London Swedish Institute for Health Economics Centre for Research in Healthcare Management Universit Bocconi Norwegian Institute of Public Health The Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry Amgen Bayer Boehringer Ingelheim Celgene European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Farmaindustria GlaxoSmithKline Health iQ Janssen Pharmaceutica NV Eli Lilly and Company Merck MSD Sharp & Dohme Novo Nordisk Pfizer Roche Sanofi Servier UCB Association of Research-Based Pharmaceutical Companies Norwegian Medicines Agency Technology, Methods and Infrastructure for Networked Medical Research Inserm Toulouse University of Liverpool University Medical Center Utrecht Charit European Society of Cardiology European Heart Network University College London University of Cambridge International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Fundacion para la investigacion del Hospital Clinico de la Comunidad Valenciana Karolinska Institutet Universitatsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf MLC Foundation University of Birmingham Uppsala University Hospital Bayer Novartis Servier Somalogic Vifor Pharma The Hyve Agencia Espaola de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios Alma Mater Studiorum Universit di Bologna Amgen Assistance Publique Hpitaux de Paris Barts Health NHS Trust BAYER Bundesinstitut fr Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte CELGENE ELN Foundation Erasmus Universiteit Medisch Centrum Rotterdam European Alliance for Personalised Medicine European Hematology Association European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer European Research Initiative on CLL e.v. European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Flanders Institute of Biotechnology Fondazione Italiana per lo studio delle sindromi mielodisplastiche onlus Fundacio privada Institut Dinvestigacio Oncologica de Vall-Hebron Fundacin Instituto de Estudios de Ciencias de la Salud de Castilla y Len Fundacin para la Investigacin del Hospital Universitario La Fe de la Comunidad Valenciana Genome Research Limited German Society of Pediatric Oncology-Hematology GmbH gemeinntzig GMV Soluciones Globales Internet S.A.U. Goethe University Frankfurt Group for Research on Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Groupe Francophone de Mylodysplasies Heinrich-Heine-Universitaet Duesseldorf Jose Carreras Leukaemia Research Institute JPNV-JANSSEN LeukaNET Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet Muenchen Masaryk University MediSapiens Ltd Medizinische Universitaet Wien MENARINI MLL Munich Leukemia Laboratory GmbH National Institute for Health and Care Excellence NOVARTIS Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Ges Synapse Research Management Partners TAKEDA The Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Cambridge The Lymphoma Scientific Association Universit degli Studi di Torino Universitaet Ulm University of Helsinki University of Navarra University of Newcastle upon Tyne University of Rome Tor Vergata University of York VU University Medical Center The Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Erasmus Universitair Medisch Centrum Rotterdam Universiteit Maastricht Synapse Research Management Partners S.L Fundaci Institut Universitari per a la Recerca a lAtenci Primria de Salut Jordi Gol i Gurina Kbenhavns Universitet Alzheimer Europe University of Edinburgh Goeteborgs Universitet Aarhus Universitet London School of Economics and Political Science Agentschap College ter Beoordeling van Geneesmiddelen IXICO Technologies Ltd Rijksuniversiteit Groningen Novartis Pharma AG Eli Lilly and Company Ltd Biogen HoffmannLa Roche Ltd Janssen Pharmaceutica NV GE Healthcare Ltd AC Immune SA Takeda Development Centre Europe Ltd H. Lundbeck A/S Academisch Ziekenhuis Leiden Leids Universitair Centrum Astellas Pharma Bayer Cancer Intelligence Limited Covance European Alliance for Personalised Medicine European Association of Urology European Cancer Patient Coalition European Institute for Systems Biology and Medicine European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Erasmus Universitair Medisch Centrum Rotterdam Fraunhofer IZI Goeteborgs Universitet Imperial College of Science Technology and Medicine International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Janssen Pharmaceutical Kings College London Lund University Orion Corporation Pinsent Masons LLP Radboud University Medical Center Sanofi SAS Institute Swedish Institute for Health Economics Technische Universitt Dresden The Hyve B.V The University Court of the University of Aberdeen Ttopstart Universitaetsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf University of Tampere Universita Vita-Salute San Raffaele Varian Medical Systems Weizmann Institute of Science BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search About Big Data About Big Data Big Data ha been ascribed transformative potential in healthcare systems, with potential benefit across the entire pathway of care delivery, and affecting all stakeholder (patients, providers, wider society, etc.). Potential of Big Data Big Data ha been attributed a having transformative potential in healthcare systems, with benefit across the entire pathway of care delivery for all stakeholders. Linkage of previously separated data set and their analysis using appropriate Big Data analytics offer new way to accelerate research and to identify the right treatment for individual patient (personalised medicine). Access to large data set give a more comprehensive picture of patients, allows patient-related outcome to be measured more accurately, and support decision-makers in shaping healthcare systems. Opportunities of Big Data The opportunity offered by Big Data will only materialise when healthcare system move beyond the mere collection of large amount of data. Linkage of previously separated data set and their analysis using appropriate Big Data analytics offer new way to accelerate research and to identify the right treatment for individual patients. Access to large data set that paint a more comprehensive picture of patient allows patient-relevant outcome to be measured more accurately. If they are of enough quality and/or supported by other finding such a lab data they can support decision-makers in shaping patient focused healthcare systems. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Project Summary Project Summary Major challenge Europes healthcare system are facing significant challenges. An ageing population, a rise in the prevalence of chronic diseases, and budgetary pressure are just some of the most pressing issues. Adding to this complexity, patient health outcome vary widely within and across healthcare systems, regions, and countries. In fact, it estimated that almost one-fifth of healthcare expenditure make minimal to no contribution to health outcome for patients. This raise life-impacting question around which therapy work best for patient and how improvement in healthcare can lead to better and more sustainable patient outcomes. Another key factor is a European health data collection landscape that can best be described a an uncoordinated, duplicative and inefficient group of systems. Linked to this is yet another challenge: how to engage patient to become more active data owner and contributor to help them become the ultimate beneficiary of improved outcomes. Ensuring their privacy is also critical. Transformational Big Data There is already a considerable amount of patient and healthcare data available with much more on the horizon. When linked together and managed properly, this data can lead to a better understanding of human biology, which in turn, can facilitate research and development towards more effective and personalised therapy for patients. In short, Big Data ha the potential to meet today challenge and by so doing, transform healthcare across the entire pathway for every stakeholder, with the ultimate outcome of improved patient care and value. BD4BO ambition Meeting these challenge led to the launch in 2016 of the Innovative Medicines Initiatives (IMI2) Big Data for Better Outcomes Programme (BD4BO). With a planned time-frame of about ten years, it framework represents the world largest public/private partnership in life sciences. The BD4BO mission is to improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe by maximising the potential of Big Data. The potential of Big Data extends across the full spectrum of healthcare. But to focus resource more efficiently, BD4BO is initially targeting four disease areas: cardiovascular diseases, haematological malignancies, Alzheimers disease and prostate cancer others will follow in the near future. The disease-specific project are supported by: DO->IT an overarching coordination structure for all BD4BO project (completed in 2019) European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) a federated network of relevant and high-quality data sources. A healthier future Big Data, when managed more effectively, ha the potential to improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe. Its this ambitious aspiration that ha motivated the pharmaceutical industry to come together to create the BD4BO Programme. The benefit are clear, far-reaching and have the potential to be truly transformational. Achieving these goal will also strengthen relationship and trust amongst all the key players. Working together is key. The level of enthusiasm and collaboration we are seeing across the broad spectrum of stakeholder is reason to be confident that BD4BO is on the right track. But change of this scale will no doubt be gradual and challenging. So, please join u by becoming an active BD4BO advocate and help Europe accelerate it evolution towards value-based, patient outcomes-focused and sustainable healthcare. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Q and A Q and A 1. What is meant by Big Data in healthcare? Big Data in healthcare ha often been defined with reference to the three Vs of data: Volume (a large amount of data), Variety (different type of data), and Velocity (data arriving at high speed). However, the notion of Big Data go beyond the characteristic of data itself and includes how data are used, a is captured in the following definition from a recent European Commission funded study: Big Data in Health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and compromise the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. It doe not refer to data collected for a specific study. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) 2. How is Big Data in healthcare collected and analysed? Healthcare system routinely collect large amount of data a patient use various healthcare services. For example, information on the fact that a patient ha visited the doctor, a well a medicine prescribed would be included in the patient record. This information is required to provide the patient with optimal care, but also play an important role in ensuring healthcare provider are reimbursed for their services. Beyond the one-dimensional collection of data, computer programme help to combine and enrich data from different sources, thus generating an added value compared to the originally isolated datasets. In broader terms, the analytic method applied are to support all stage of the health technology life cycle from basic research (such a genomics, proteomics and metabolomics data) to reimbursement decision (such a economic modelling methods) and subgroup identification (such a imaging data). 3. Who can use Big Data in healthcare and how? The smarter use of healthcare data is expected to improve healthcare outcome and make healthcare system more efficient, accessible and resilient. It can also contribute to improved research and development, and lead to more effective policy making. Big Data can be used especially by healthcare services, the academia, policy makers, and the industry. A few example on the use of Big Data in healthcare are the following: achieving better health outcome improving the effectiveness of treatment and increasing patient safety monitoring healthcare service detection of population-level effect more efficient recruitment and selection of patient for clinical trial 4. What are the benefit of using Big Data for patients? Big Data ha been attributed a having transformative potential in healthcare systems, with benefit across the entire pathway of care delivery for all stakeholders. Linkage of previously separated data set and their analysis using appropriate Big Data analytics offer new way to accelerate research and to identify the right treatment for individual patient (personalised medicine). Access to large data set give a more comprehensive picture of patients, allows patient-related outcome to be measured more accurately, and support decision-makers in shaping healthcare systems. 5. What are health outcomes? According to an explanation given by the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) in 2016: Outcomes are the result of treatment that patient care about most. Outcomes are not outputs; they are not lab results; they are not technical details. Theyre real-world results, like physical functioning or level of pain or quality of life. 6. Why is value-based and outcomes-focused healthcare important? One of the primary goal of healthcare is improving the overall health of the population. Efficiently allocating fund to pay for care is a key factor, and it is crucial that scarce resource are spent wisely on treatment that offer the most benefit to patients, that is, better outcomes. Therefore, a value-based approach to healthcare would ensure that the healthcare system receives the greatest benefit from investment of public fund when deciding between treatment alternatives. 7. What is the Big Data for Better Outcomes Programme (BD4BO)? Where is it place within IMI? Big Data for Better Outcomes (BD4BO) is part of the public-private Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 (IMI-2) the world largest life science public/private partnership. BD4BOs mission is to improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe by maximising the potential of Big Data. The Programme currently consists of research in four disease-specific areas: Alzheimers disease; haematological malignancies; heart disease and prostate cancer are already ongoing and new project in other disease area will evolve. These project will lead the way in using Real-World Evidence (RWE) to complement evidence obtained from clinical trials. RWE mean using source such a registry and electronic health records, but potentially also more novel source of data such a from wearable technology like smartwatches or smartphones. BD4BO and it project aspires to become the go-to source for pan-European outcome data and a trusted partner for patients, researchers, healthcare professionals, and decision-makers alike. 8. Which project comprise the BD4BO Programme? Are future topic being considered? The BD4BO Programme is composed of several projects, currently including project in disease-specific area a listed below. These disease-specific project are supported by the Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare Systems Transformation (DO-IT) Consortium, and the European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) project which aim to be a federated network of relevant and high quality data sources. The disease-specific project are: ROADMAP stand for: Real World Outcomes Across the Alzheimers Disease spectrum for better care: Multi-modal data Access Platform. The project aim to provide the foundation for a Europe-wide integrated data environment and framework for Real-World Evidence across the spectrum of Alzheimers disease. (www.roadmap-alzheimer.org) HARMONY stand for Healthcare Alliance for Resourceful Medicines Offensive against Neoplasm in Haematology. The Big Data platform developed by HARMONY, a European Network of Excellence for Big Data in haematology, is aimed at improving the outcome of patient with haematological malignancy through the use of Big Data-sharing among all relevant stakeholders. (www.harmony-alliance.eu) BigData@Heart BigData@Hearts goal is to develop clinically-relevant disease phenotypes, scalable insight from Real-World Evidence and insight driving drug development and personalised medicine through advanced analytics. (www.bigdata-heart.eu) PIONEER the European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer 9. How can patient data contribute to improved outcomes? A much more active participation of patient is needed to achieve the BD4BO Programmes ambitious core objective: to develop an approach within existing data system to efficiently enable initiation, maintenance, and evaluation of the right treatment to the right patient at the right time in healthcare systems. The Programme plan to unlock a wealth of patient-reported outcome measure based on digital data mining with the aim of developing preventative and personalised approach to care for the benefit of patients. Patients are the ultimate beneficiary of improved outcome so they are encouraged to play a more active role a consortium member and contributors. 10. How is patient data protected in the BD4BO project? The Programme will provide a structure for empowering patient a data owner and partner in research. Recognising the ultimate right of patient to their personal data, including the right to opt out of data sharing, it will ensure that the informed consent template and data privacy standard strike a balance between protecting individual privacy and promoting innovation. A toolkit will be developed that includes best practice and training material for collaborating with patients, and informing them about data privacy in research. 11. How can I find information on the implementation of the BD4BO Programme? The outcome and result of the Programme, a well a relevant news, information on conference and other events, our newsletters, publication and press release will be communicated on our website: 12. How ha Big Data been used in healthcare previously? Historically, Big Data ha been under-utilised due to lack of advanced technology to extract insight and data sharing among national healthcare systems. Many of today investment in large datasets and Real-World Evidence are uncoordinated, duplicative, and inefficient due to lack of agreement on standardised IT-solutions. Other reason include: terminology and outcome to measure patient benefits, lack of appropriate data source and method to collect, analyse, report and use/interpret data. 13. What are the biggest challenge facing the use of Big Data in healthcare? There are many challenge to overcome the most important are: Security: perhaps the #1 concern of the healthcare industry is protecting data from a vast array of threats. Data capture: the lack of harmonised data capture system must be improved to increase it overall quality and usability Clean data: more advance in cleaning data are needed to ensure datasets are accurate, consistent, relevant and not corrupted. Storage: a the volume of data is rapidly increasing, the safe and cost-effective storage of data is more critical than ever. Curation: developing complete, accurate and up-to-date metadata is vital to any data governance plan. Querying/sharing: data silo and interoperability problem can prevent query tool from accessing information. Standardisation and the use of common language will help ensure the completeness and accuracy of stored data and facilitate data sharing. Reporting: again, to ensure consistency and completeness, data reporting must be standarised. Updating: data is not static and often requires updates. Organisations must ensure they understand what data can be updated manually vs. automated and that they are not creating unnecessary and costly duplicate records. 14. How have policy maker reacted to Big Data development in healthcare? European policy maker have made Big Data in healthcare a political priority. This led to the creation of a partnership between the EC and the European pharmaceutical industry represented by EFPIA the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. Following on from this, the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 (IMI2), with a budget of almost 3.3 billion, wa created to run from 2014 -2020. This represents the world largest life science public/private partnership! 15. What doe high value treatment mean? How will it contribute to more effective care? High value treatment mean health outcome achieved per euro spent. Its about maximising what matter for patient and uniting the interest of all healthcare stakeholders. By it very definition, it goal is to make significant stride in pharma ability to anticipate, prevent and treat a broad spectrum of life-threatening disease across the entire treatment pathway. This can be achieved by maximising the transformational potential of Big Data. 16. As the volume of healthcare data and it likelihood to be targeted by fraudsters increases, what measure are being taken to protect my private data? Just like your financial data managed by your bank, the data protection industry continues to work diligently to stay ahead of fraudsters and safeguard the integrity of healthcare data. Patients are the ultimate beneficiary of improved outcomes, so they are encouraged to be more active supporter and contributor to initiative like BD4BO. Patient information is anonymous and patient will always have the right to opt-out of any data-sharing system. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Mission Statement and Key Aspects Mission Statement and Key Aspects Mission Statement Improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe by maximising the potential of Big Data. Key aspect Key aspect of the BD4BO Programme: Ambitious: Leverage Big Datas power for healthcare systems, including improved access, analysis and harmonisation of Big Data. Transformational: Big Data ha the potential to transform healthcare across the entire pathway for every stakeholder, with the ultimate outcome of improved patient care and value. Collaborative: BD4BO provides a framework for PPPs to combine and expand new/existing data sources, build analytic capability and establish common standards. Disease-specific: cardiovascular diseases, haematological malignancies, Alzheimers disease and prostate cancer. Patient-centric: Patients play a key role a consortium member and contributors, and are the ultimate beneficiary of improved outcome delivered by BD4BO. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Publications Publications Newsletters Publications BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Contact u Contact u Contact for BD4BO Website: Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Overcoming big data challengesImproving health outcome Protecting data privacy Ensuring that consent, confidentiality and patient privacy is protected is a prerequisite for building trust in big data and real world evidence. Sharing data across different legal system is a challenge for big data research. DO->IT ha produced an informed consent form (ICF) and guideline to encourage data sharing with the protection of privacy. What are the existing and emerging data privacy and informed consent practice in research? There is substantial heterogeneity in preference and practice surrounding informed consent. There is a clear interest in developing new model of informed consent and adapting existing models, particularly driven by information and communication technology, data re-use, data linkage, and genome-based research. Novel model of consent have the potential to add value in an emerging data environment and to facilitate research opportunity while preserving participant rights. Which minimum data privacy standard should be included in Informed Consent Forms? BD4BO partner have developed a proposal to demonstrate what EU-wide and even globally harmonised data protection clause could look like under the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The ongoing heterogeneous interpretation of the GDPR across country continues to make it difficult to develop universally accepted provisions. The developed clause have been discussed with patient focus group and a panel of representative of data protection authority and ethic committee from various countries. The Informed Consent Form template developed cover the use of study data collected in clinical trial for future research project including biobanks. An Explanatory document wa developed to underline the rationale and give more background on the complex choice behind the proposed Informed Consent Form wording. How can data privacy requirement best be explained to patients? Patients have a diverse understanding of data privacy requirements. Finding the right way to providing information and clarification to them is essential. DO->IT ha developed training material with key question and answer on data privacy requirement and concerns. Selecting relevant outcome The DO->IT project looked at how to identify, select and measure relevant outcome in a transparent process involving a range of stakeholder perspectives. Why is it important to select relevant outcomes? Outcomes are the result of treatment that patient care about most. We can only optimise our healthcare system and make them truly patient-centric by identifying, measuring and selecting the outcome that matter to patients. Organisations who make decision on access to medicine have specific evidence needs. Therefore, it is essential to consider their perspective a well. In most disease area there is a lack of consistency in the outcome reported within routine care, registry or clinical trials. This make it difficult to pool evidence to inform healthcare or policy decisions. What process doe DO->IT recommend for selecting relevant outcomes? DO->IT ha developed a practical guide for BD4BO projects, to identify, select and measure the core outcome set for their disease area. The developed clause have been discussed with patient focus group and a panel of representative of data protection authority and ethic committee from various countries. The practical guide proposes six main step to develop a core outcome set, from scoping to dissemination, with a focus on ensuring wide stakeholder input across all stages. It is also intended to stimulate standardisation of outcome in Europe more widely. The stage for development and implementation of core outcome set are: Scoping Use of available core outcome set Identification of outcome Selection of outcome Selection of outcome measurement instrument Implementation and uptake. Using data effectively Real world data can facilitate bridging the evidence gap between randomised controlled trial and real-world populations. This requires the correct tool for credible and acceptable evidence and condition that enable data sharing. How can we ensure big data and real world evidence is analysed robustly and used effectively in order to be acceptable to all stakeholders? DO->IT ha produced a review of econometric method for real world data analysis and undertaken a case study review of core outcome set and their availability in real world data. The review ass the strength and limitation of several econometric method in their application to real world data. How can decision maker use outcome data more effectively to bridge the evidence gap? Decision maker can provide early advice on study design to ensure the right outcome data is captured. Decision maker are looking at the use of method such a propensity score matching to predict effect in real world populations. Decision maker recognise that to improve the use of outcome data there a need for better coordination of initiative and access to health data. Can core outcome set be applied to real world settings? The use of core outcome set is good practice and their application to real world evidence can help strengthen it credibility for decision maker and acceptability for stakeholders. DO->IT ha undertaken a case study review to identify if core outcome set can be replicated in several disease areas. Improving health outcome The BD4BO programme aim to improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe by maximising the potential of big data. It doe so by demonstrating big data potential benefit across a number of disease areas. How can we maximise the potential of big data to improve health outcomes? Help key stakeholder understand the value of existing and prospective data set by improving the quality of the data collected and by robustly linking datasets. Demonstrate pragmatic approach to improving the availability, access and use of health data for secondary us e.g. establishing a Big Data platform, a distributed model approach, creating common data models, and methodology for analysing data. What resource ha DO->IT developed to communicate BD4BO programme output and maximise their potential to improve health outcomes? The BD4BO Knowledge Hub provides an online platform for BD4BO project to share their work with each other and the wider big data community. A communication toolkit, including patient story and testimonies, highlight the impact of big data initiative on patients. Overcoming big data challenge There is huge potential for the use of big data and real world evidence in health research but they also create new challenge for industry, academia, regulators, health practitioner and patients. What are the most pressing challenge in maximising the potential of Big Data to transform healthcare systems? While there are many challenge to maximising the use of Big Data, it is important to frame the objective and the desired impact in order to identify the most pressing ones. Alignment of big data initiatives, for example those under the BD4BO umbrella, can help identify and increase focus on the most important challenges. DO->IT research highlighted five key challenge to big data usage: Lack of alignment on the value of big data among decision maker Lack of interoperability within and between healthcare system Lack of a data sharing culture between data custodians, data user and patients. Significant legal barrier for researcher who want to access health data Sustainability of big data initiatives. What should future research in this area focus on? A set of recommendation for future research priorities, intended to support the shift towards outcomes-focused, data-driven European health care systems, ha been were developed in consultation with the DO->IT International Advisory Board. These recommendation are based on the finding from case study exploring the potential value of big data for medicines, regulatory and health technology assessment decision-making. The recommendation include: Ensure that existing and prospectively collected data is put to use Make patient-reported outcome available in routine data set Demonstrate the advantage and limitation of non-experimental method for causal inference, and identify situation when non-experimental evidence can complement randomised controlled trial Use pragmatic trial to investigate effectiveness and safety using robust methodological standard in real-world populations. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search About BD4BO About BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme aiming to develop key enablers to support health care system transformation through the use of big data. The initiative will develop platform for integrating and analysing diverse data sets, focusing on outcome that matter to patient and generating meaningful insight that will help improve health care. http://bd4bo.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/BD4BO_SUBS_v05.mp4 In a set of project in exemplary disease areas, Big Data for Better Outcomes will contribute to healthcare system change through: -Definition of outcome metric -Protocols, process and tool to access high quality data -Methodologies and analytics to drive improvement -Digital and other solution that increase patient engagement BD4BO ha four disease-specific project so far. (Alzheimers Disease), (Hematologic Malignancies), and (Prostate Cancer) are already producing deliverable to enable the efficient use of big data and contribute to improving healthcare system and patient outcome and further project are to come. These disease-specific project are supported by the Coordination and Support Action (DO->IT) a an overarching coordination structure (completed in 2019), and the European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) project which will be a federated network of relevant data sources. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Roadmap Roadmap Alzheimers disease is on the rise in our ageing population, and new, effective treatment are urgently needed. Currently, the safety and benefit to patient of potential treatment are assessed in strictly-controlled clinical trials. However, clinical trial do not reflect the effect of treatment on patient in their daily life in the real world. The ROADMAP project aim to deliver a series of method and tool that will allow the scalable, transferable integration of data on patient outcome in the real world. The tool will be developed and tested through pilot project and will lay the foundation for a Europe-wide platform on real-world evidence in Alzheimers disease. The project will also actively engage with people living with dementia amongst other stakeholder and address the ethical, legal and social implication of adopting a real world evidence approach to Alzheimers disease. Partners The Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Erasmus Universitair Medisch Centrum Rotterdam Universiteit Maastricht Synapse Research Management Partners S.L Fundaci Institut Universitari per a la Recerca a lAtenci Primria de Salut Jordi Gol i Gurina Kbenhavns Universitet Alzheimer Europe University of Edinburgh Goeteborgs Universitet Aarhus Universitet London School of Economics and Political Science Agentschap College ter Beoordeling van Geneesmiddelen IXICO Technologies Ltd Rijksuniversiteit Groningen Novartis Pharma AG Eli Lilly and Company Ltd Biogen HoffmannLa Roche Ltd Janssen Pharmaceutica NV GE Healthcare Ltd AC Immune SA Takeda Development Centre Europe Ltd H. Lundbeck A/S Academisch Ziekenhuis Leiden Leids Universitair Centrum Post navigation BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search BigData@Heart BigData@Heart Atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF) and acute coronary syndrome (ACS) are major driver of cardiovascular disease (CVD), which cause more than 3.9 million death each year across Europe. Currently, the management of AF, HF and ACS is complicated by their complex aetiology and heterogeneous prognoses. There is a clear need for a better definition of CVD through improved biomarkers and endpoints, a well a it outcome and prognoses. The BigData@Heart, a five-year project launched in March 2017, uniquely brings together 19 partner from academia, medical associations, pharmaceutical industry, SMEs and patient organization to address these challenges. The consortium will develop a data-driven translational research platform which will be aiming at delivering clinically relevant disease phenotypes, scalable insight from real-world evidence, best-practices in drug development, and personalised medicine through advanced analytics. Partners University Medical Center Utrecht Charit European Society of Cardiology European Heart Network University College London University of Cambridge International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Fundacion para la investigacion del Hospital Clinico de la Comunidad Valenciana Karolinska Institutet Universitatsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf MLC Foundation University of Birmingham Uppsala University Hospital Bayer Novartis Servier Somalogic Vifor Pharma The Hyve Post navigation BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Harmony Harmony Blood cancers, or haematologic cancer (e.g. leukaemia, lymphoma and myeloma), affect the production and function of blood cell and account for about 40% of cancer case in child and about one third of cancer deaths. As many blood cancer are rare, and healthcare practice varies across EU, a lack of data on relevant outcome represents a challenge for clinicians, researchers, and other decision-makers like regulator and HTA bodies, resulting in limitation for patient access to the best healthcare. The HARMONY Alliance aim to use big data and big data analytics to deliver information that will help to improve the care of patient with these diseases. Specifically, this IMI project will gather together, integrate and analyse patient data from a number of high quality sources. This will help the team to define clinical endpoint and outcome for these disease that are recognised by all key stakeholder of the Healthcare system. Meanwhile the project generated insight will facilitate and improve decision making along the value chain to ultimately give the right treatment to the right patient at the right time. More broadly, the project will result in a pan-European network of stakeholder with expertise in this disease area. Partners Agencia Espaola de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios Alma Mater Studiorum Universit di Bologna Amgen Assistance Publique Hpitaux de Paris Barts Health NHS Trust BAYER Bundesinstitut fr Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte CELGENE ELN Foundation Erasmus Universiteit Medisch Centrum Rotterdam European Alliance for Personalised Medicine European Hematology Association European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer European Research Initiative on CLL e.v. European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Flanders Institute of Biotechnology Fondazione Italiana per lo studio delle sindromi mielodisplastiche onlus Fundacio privada Institut Dinvestigacio Oncologica de Vall-Hebron Fundacin Instituto de Estudios de Ciencias de la Salud de Castilla y Len Fundacin para la Investigacin del Hospital Universitario La Fe de la Comunidad Valenciana Genome Research Limited German Society of Pediatric Oncology-Hematology GmbH gemeinntzig GMV Soluciones Globales Internet S.A.U. Goethe University Frankfurt Group for Research on Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Groupe Francophone de Mylodysplasies Heinrich-Heine-Universitaet Duesseldorf Jose Carreras Leukaemia Research Institute JPNV-JANSSEN LeukaNET Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet Muenchen Masaryk University MediSapiens Ltd Medizinische Universitaet Wien MENARINI MLL Munich Leukemia Laboratory GmbH National Institute for Health and Care Excellence NOVARTIS Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Ges Synapse Research Management Partners TAKEDA The Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Cambridge The Lymphoma Scientific Association Universit degli Studi di Torino Universitaet Ulm University of Helsinki University of Navarra University of Newcastle upon Tyne University of Rome Tor Vergata University of York) VU University Medical Center Post navigation BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Pioneer Pioneer Prostate cancer is the second commonest cancer in men, 1 in 8 men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during their lifetime, accounting for 9% of all cancer death among men in Europe. The socio-economic burden associated with PCa is predicted to dramatically increase in the coming year due to our ageing population. Studies have reported a prevalence of 59% by the age of 79 years. PIONEERs unique approach is to firstly identify critical evidence gap in prostate cancer care through a detailed prioritisation exercise including all stakeholder (i.e. clinicians, patients, researchers, industry etc.). PIONEER will then standardise and integrate existing big data from high quality and multidisciplinary data source from prostate cancer patient across different stage of the disease into a single innovative data platform. Based on a unique set of methodology and advanced analytical methods, PIONEER will attempt to transform the field of prostate cancer care with particular focus on improving prostate cancer-related outcomes, health system efficiency and the quality of health and social care delivered to all prostate cancer patient and their families. In addition, PIONEER will aim to provide standardised care pathway for all clinical centre across Europe. Partners Astellas Pharma Bayer Cancer Intelligence Limited Covance European Alliance for Personalised Medicine European Association of Urology European Cancer Patient Coalition European Institute for Systems Biology and Medicine European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Erasmus Universitair Medisch Centrum Rotterdam Fraunhofer IZI Goeteborgs Universitet Imperial College of Science Technology and Medicine International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Janssen Pharmaceutical Kings College London Lund University Orion Corporation Pinsent Masons LLP Radboud University Medical Center Sanofi SAS Institute Swedish Institute for Health Economics Technische Universitt Dresden The Hyve B.V The University Court of the University of Aberdeen Ttopstart Universitaetsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf University of Tampere Universita Vita-Salute San Raffaele Varian Medical Systems Weizmann Institute of Science Post navigation BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search EHDEN EHDEN Today, in Europe, we are challenged to generate insight and evidence from real world clinical data at scale, to support patients, clinicians, payers, regulators, governments, and the pharmaceutical industry in understanding wellbeing, disease, treatments, outcome and new therapeutic and devices. Unfortunately, such data is difficult to use at scale, in a myriad of languages, system and structures, with challenging policy restriction and technology considerations. Consequently, using real world data for research, reflective of what happens for patient in their own experience of healthcare, is very challenging. In response to this, the European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) public-private project wa established. EHDEN aspires to provide a new paradigm for the discovery and analysis of health data in Europe, ultimately enabling better health decisions, outcome and care for patient across Europe. The project will build a largescale, federated network of data source and set the ambitious goal of harmonising 100 million anonymized health record to the OMOP common data model and to stimulate the utilisation of analytical tool such a those developed by the international Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) open science collaboration (www.ohdsi.org), and others. To achieve these ambitious goals, a network of SMEs will be trained and certified to ensure high validity transformation of data to the common data model. In parallel, data source can apply for funding from the EHDEN Harmonisation Fund through serial open call to obtain support from these certified/qualified SMEs. Additionally, the research output of EHDEN will focus on evidence generation through appropriate, validating use cases, incorporating health outcome standards. Partners Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam (Coordinating) European Patients Forum International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) NDORMs, Oxford University Odysseus Data Services Stiftelsen WHO Collaborating Centre for International Drug Monitoring, Upsala Synapse Research Management Partners The Hyve University of Aveiro University of Tartu Janssen Abbvie AstraZeneca Bayer Celgene Eli Lilly Novartis Pfizer Sanofi Servier UCB Post navigation BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search The Potential of Big Data The Potential of Big Data BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Legal Notice Legal Notice Disclaimer This website is maintained by the Consortium of the IMI Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare Systems Transformation (DO->IT) Project, hereinafter referred to a the DO->IT Consortium. The aim of the website is to keep the public informed about the activity of the project consortium participating in the IMI Big Data for Better Outcomes Programme (BD4BO), hereinafter referred to a BD4BO Partners. The text and layout of communication on this website reflect the author view and neither IMI, nor the European Union, EFPIA or any Associated Partners are responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. The DO->IT Consortium make no warranty or representation of any kind a to the content accuracy, currency or completeness. Neither the DO->IT Consortium nor any party involved in creating, producing or delivering this document shall be liable for any damages, including without limitation, direct, incidental, consequential, indirect or punitive damages, arising out of access to, use of or inability to use this document, or any error or omission in the content thereof. In order to give the public some additional information on our project, the information provided on this website is sometimes linked to external site over which the DO->IT Consortium partner have no control and for which the DO->IT Consortium partners, except for the DO->IT Consortium partner to which website a link is made, assume no responsibility. Once you visit an external website you are subject to the policy of that site. The DO->IT Consortium partner do not intend to advertise or market directly or indirectly any of the product or other item which may be mentioned on such external website. The content of this website may not be used for commercial purposes. Remixing is not permitted except for private use. The DO->IT Consortium doe not permit to be linked to any third party site without our prior written consent. The BD4BO Partners name and logo and all related trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property right are the property of the ROADMAP Consortium partner and cannot be used, copied or distributed in any way without the express prior written permission of the BD4BO Consortium partner concerned. Every effort is made to keep the website up and running smoothly. However, the DO->IT Consortium take no responsibility and will not be liable for the website temporarily being unavailable due to technical issue beyond our control. Privacy Policy The DO-IT Consortium is committed to user privacy. The protection of individual with regard to the processing of personal data is based on Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural person with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (Text with EEA relevance). You can browse through this website without giving any personal information but in some cases, in order to provide requested e-services, especially if you would like to subscribe for our Newsletter, personal informal may be required, in which case information will be treated in line with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) referred to above. Update of the legal notice This legal notice including the disclaimer and the privacy policy may change when necessary. The updated version will always be made available immediately on this website. BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search BigData@Heart BigData@Heart Atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF) and acute coronary syndrome (ACS) are major driver of cardiovascular disease (CVD), which cause more than 3.9 million death each year across Europe. Currently, the management of AF, HF and ACS is complicated by their complex aetiology and heterogeneous prognoses. There is a clear need for a better definition of CVD through improved biomarkers and endpoints, a well a it outcome and prognoses. The BigData@Heart, a five-year project launched in March 2017, uniquely brings together 19 partner from academia, medical associations, pharmaceutical industry, SMEs and patient organization to address these challenges. The consortium will develop a data-driven translational research platform which will be aiming at delivering clinically relevant disease phenotypes, scalable insight from real-world evidence, best-practices in drug development, and personalised medicine through advanced analytics. Partners University Medical Center Utrecht Charit European Society of Cardiology European Heart Network University College London University of Cambridge International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Fundacion para la investigacion del Hospital Clinico de la Comunidad Valenciana Karolinska Institutet Universitatsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf MLC Foundation University of Birmingham Uppsala University Hospital Bayer Novartis Servier Somalogic Vifor Pharma The Hyve Post navigation BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Overcoming big data challengesImproving health outcome http://bd4bo.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/BD4BO_SUBS_v05.mp4 Experts from the BD4BO programme have some recommendation on how to make the European Health Data Space really work for patients, doctor and researcher BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition. Big Data for Better Outcomes Search for: Search Overcoming big data challengesImproving health outcome http://bd4bo.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/BD4BO_SUBS_v05.mp4 Experts from the BD4BO programme have some recommendation on how to make the European Health Data Space really work for patients, doctor and researcher BD4BO Big Data for Better Outcomes Contact for BD4BO Website This website ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) under grant agreement No. 116055. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest Email: doit.communication@emk.sote.hu Definitions Big Data BD4BO Big data in health refers to largely routinely or automatically collected datasets, which are electronically captured and stored. It is reusable in the sense of multipurpose data and comprises the fusion and connection of existing database for the purpose of improving health and health system performance. (European Commission, Study on Big Data in Public Health, Telemedicine and Healthcare. 2016.) Big Data for Better Outcomes is a comprehensive European research programme funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2) aiming to develop key enablers to support healthcare system transformation through the use of big data. DO->IT Core outcome set Big Data for Better Outcomes, Policy Innovation and Healthcare System Transformation is the Coordination and Support Action project of the BD4BO programme. the agreed minimum standardised set of outcome that should be measured and reported in trial or other research on a specific condition.