The Data Sharing Coalition is an open and growing, international initiative in which a large variety of organisation collaborate on unlocking the value of (cross-sectoral) data sharing. Menu Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC)The true value of data can only be realised if it is shared and re-used throughout the digital economy. The CoE-DSC aim to unlock this value by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing.Who we areOne central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challengesThe Centre of Excellence Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC) support organisation with establishing trust mechanism for secure and trusted data sharing, ensuring that they can tap into the business opportunity this transformative practice offers. Our mission is to unlock the true value of data sharing by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing. Through the development of generic building block and collaborative efforts, we enable easier and cost-effective implementation of data space across sector and geographies.The CoE-DSC is the central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challenges. We bring together the expertise and achievement of the Data Sharing Coalition, the Data Sharing working group of the Dutch AI Coalition (NL AIC), and the Gaia-X Hub Netherlands. By uniting these forces, we aim to prevent fragmentation and provide the Dutch data sharing community with a centralised hub of knowledge, tools, and expertise. Insights Parties interested in deploying a data space need to use the right technology and need to make sure they get the business and governance of the data space right. This is easier said than done, because there is relatively little guidance on how to deploy a data space successfully. What guidance can be given? In the Netherlands, there are various initiative that are working on improving the digital position of the country. How do the CoE-DSC and Topsector ICT collaborate? What are data sharing trend and how can we shape the future? Data space and Privacy Enhancing Technologies have a common goal: making insight from data accessible in a confidential manner. But the development of both is driven by two different communities. This must change. By applying PETs within data spaces, confidentially exchanging insight from (privacy sensitive) data becomes more scalable. Use case Our participant Linksight collaborates with DSW, the municipality of Delft and elderly care organisation Pieter van Foreest and us Multi-party Computation to generate insight without sharing the data itself, which help to monitor and improve elderly care. Together with our participant SBR Nexus, data of industry association member is shared with industry association to create valuable insight about the whole sector. Together with participant Knights Analytics and Roseman Labs, we examined the application of Artificial Intelligence Entity Resolution technology to help combat financial crime. Together with our participant Impact IoT Solutions and HAN and De Marke, we examine the value potential of new data source for dairy farming and the most important condition to unlock these new data source in a use case. Together with our participant Sustainable Rescue Foundation, Roseman Labs and NGOs and other participants, we work on a use case that focus on secure data exchange between different party monitoring human trafficking. A model ha been developed that can automatically assign an ICD-10 code to half of the record a accurately a human coder can. For the remainder, the coder is given suggestions, simplifying the coding work and further training the model. Events & Webinars September 18 May 23 May 22 | 14:30 May 15 | 16:00 Our communityWould you like to join our community? Please contact u at . Do you want to stay informed?A lot is happening in the field of data sharing and cloud. Stay informed about our activity and relevant news and events.Subscribe to the newsletter of the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC). Frequently Asked Questions The CoE-DSC function a a central hub for market player seeking solution to develop trust in data sharing by providing access to relevant tools, knowledge, and best practices. The CoE-DSC is an open collaborative initiative seeking alignment with sectoral data sharing initiative avoid fragmentation in solutions. CoE-DSC combine all knowledge and expertise that ha been developed within the Working Group Data Sharing of the NL AIC, the Data Sharing Coalition, and the Gaia-X Hub NL, and provides access to open-source components, standard and implementation that are currently available in the market. At the moment, further information on the tool and guideline can be found on the website of the original initiatives. All document can be downloaded on the website of the original initiatives. Links to existing tool and guideline are:Furthermore, we are currently working on creating an inventory of reusable open-source components, standards, and implementation available in the market. Members of the CoE-DSC community get the opportunity to participate in the development of (cross-sectoral) data sharing use case with support from expert andtools, gain and share knowledge about (cross-sectoral) data sharing through participation in various activity organized by the CoE-DSC and collaborate with other participants.This mean being involved in new initiative and projects, and becoming part of an open and active community that will enrich your network. No membership fee is charged to CoE-DSC community members. However, we do ask an in-kind commitment from our community members. In-kind commitment consists of actively contributing to the knowledge community by attending community activities, a well a participating in the development of data sharing use cases. Organisations that are interested can join the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud by following these four simple steps:Reach out to the dedicated project team of the CoE-DSC to express interest in joining the CoE-DSC community by sending an email to:Join an introductory appointment/intake call to get acquainted and to discus the detail of participation (role and commitment)Confirm participation, agreed role, and level of commitmentGet onboarded and invited to all relevant meeting Contact u If you have any question please send u an email at . 2024 Cookies To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Menu Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC)The true value of data can only be realised if it is shared and re-used throughout the digital economy. The CoE-DSC aim to unlock this value by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing.Who we areOne central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challengesThe Centre of Excellence Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC) support organisation with establishing trust mechanism for secure and trusted data sharing, ensuring that they can tap into the business opportunity this transformative practice offers. Our mission is to unlock the true value of data sharing by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing. Through the development of generic building block and collaborative efforts, we enable easier and cost-effective implementation of data space across sector and geographies.The CoE-DSC is the central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challenges. We bring together the expertise and achievement of the Data Sharing Coalition, the Data Sharing working group of the Dutch AI Coalition (NL AIC), and the Gaia-X Hub Netherlands. By uniting these forces, we aim to prevent fragmentation and provide the Dutch data sharing community with a centralised hub of knowledge, tools, and expertise. Insights Parties interested in deploying a data space need to use the right technology and need to make sure they get the business and governance of the data space right. This is easier said than done, because there is relatively little guidance on how to deploy a data space successfully. What guidance can be given? In the Netherlands, there are various initiative that are working on improving the digital position of the country. How do the CoE-DSC and Topsector ICT collaborate? What are data sharing trend and how can we shape the future? Data space and Privacy Enhancing Technologies have a common goal: making insight from data accessible in a confidential manner. But the development of both is driven by two different communities. This must change. By applying PETs within data spaces, confidentially exchanging insight from (privacy sensitive) data becomes more scalable. Use case Our participant Linksight collaborates with DSW, the municipality of Delft and elderly care organisation Pieter van Foreest and us Multi-party Computation to generate insight without sharing the data itself, which help to monitor and improve elderly care. Together with our participant SBR Nexus, data of industry association member is shared with industry association to create valuable insight about the whole sector. Together with participant Knights Analytics and Roseman Labs, we examined the application of Artificial Intelligence Entity Resolution technology to help combat financial crime. Together with our participant Impact IoT Solutions and HAN and De Marke, we examine the value potential of new data source for dairy farming and the most important condition to unlock these new data source in a use case. Together with our participant Sustainable Rescue Foundation, Roseman Labs and NGOs and other participants, we work on a use case that focus on secure data exchange between different party monitoring human trafficking. A model ha been developed that can automatically assign an ICD-10 code to half of the record a accurately a human coder can. For the remainder, the coder is given suggestions, simplifying the coding work and further training the model. Events & Webinars September 18 May 23 May 22 | 14:30 May 15 | 16:00 Our communityWould you like to join our community? Please contact u at . Do you want to stay informed?A lot is happening in the field of data sharing and cloud. Stay informed about our activity and relevant news and events.Subscribe to the newsletter of the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC). Frequently Asked Questions The CoE-DSC function a a central hub for market player seeking solution to develop trust in data sharing by providing access to relevant tools, knowledge, and best practices. The CoE-DSC is an open collaborative initiative seeking alignment with sectoral data sharing initiative avoid fragmentation in solutions. CoE-DSC combine all knowledge and expertise that ha been developed within the Working Group Data Sharing of the NL AIC, the Data Sharing Coalition, and the Gaia-X Hub NL, and provides access to open-source components, standard and implementation that are currently available in the market. At the moment, further information on the tool and guideline can be found on the website of the original initiatives. All document can be downloaded on the website of the original initiatives. Links to existing tool and guideline are:Furthermore, we are currently working on creating an inventory of reusable open-source components, standards, and implementation available in the market. Members of the CoE-DSC community get the opportunity to participate in the development of (cross-sectoral) data sharing use case with support from expert andtools, gain and share knowledge about (cross-sectoral) data sharing through participation in various activity organized by the CoE-DSC and collaborate with other participants.This mean being involved in new initiative and projects, and becoming part of an open and active community that will enrich your network. No membership fee is charged to CoE-DSC community members. However, we do ask an in-kind commitment from our community members. In-kind commitment consists of actively contributing to the knowledge community by attending community activities, a well a participating in the development of data sharing use cases. Organisations that are interested can join the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud by following these four simple steps:Reach out to the dedicated project team of the CoE-DSC to express interest in joining the CoE-DSC community by sending an email to:Join an introductory appointment/intake call to get acquainted and to discus the detail of participation (role and commitment)Confirm participation, agreed role, and level of commitmentGet onboarded and invited to all relevant meeting Contact u If you have any question please send u an email at . 2024 Cookies To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Menu Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC)The true value of data can only be realised if it is shared and re-used throughout the digital economy. The CoE-DSC aim to unlock this value by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing.Who we areOne central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challengesThe Centre of Excellence Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC) support organisation with establishing trust mechanism for secure and trusted data sharing, ensuring that they can tap into the business opportunity this transformative practice offers. Our mission is to unlock the true value of data sharing by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing. Through the development of generic building block and collaborative efforts, we enable easier and cost-effective implementation of data space across sector and geographies.The CoE-DSC is the central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challenges. We bring together the expertise and achievement of the Data Sharing Coalition, the Data Sharing working group of the Dutch AI Coalition (NL AIC), and the Gaia-X Hub Netherlands. By uniting these forces, we aim to prevent fragmentation and provide the Dutch data sharing community with a centralised hub of knowledge, tools, and expertise. Insights Parties interested in deploying a data space need to use the right technology and need to make sure they get the business and governance of the data space right. This is easier said than done, because there is relatively little guidance on how to deploy a data space successfully. What guidance can be given? In the Netherlands, there are various initiative that are working on improving the digital position of the country. How do the CoE-DSC and Topsector ICT collaborate? What are data sharing trend and how can we shape the future? Data space and Privacy Enhancing Technologies have a common goal: making insight from data accessible in a confidential manner. But the development of both is driven by two different communities. This must change. By applying PETs within data spaces, confidentially exchanging insight from (privacy sensitive) data becomes more scalable. Use case Our participant Linksight collaborates with DSW, the municipality of Delft and elderly care organisation Pieter van Foreest and us Multi-party Computation to generate insight without sharing the data itself, which help to monitor and improve elderly care. Together with our participant SBR Nexus, data of industry association member is shared with industry association to create valuable insight about the whole sector. Together with participant Knights Analytics and Roseman Labs, we examined the application of Artificial Intelligence Entity Resolution technology to help combat financial crime. Together with our participant Impact IoT Solutions and HAN and De Marke, we examine the value potential of new data source for dairy farming and the most important condition to unlock these new data source in a use case. Together with our participant Sustainable Rescue Foundation, Roseman Labs and NGOs and other participants, we work on a use case that focus on secure data exchange between different party monitoring human trafficking. A model ha been developed that can automatically assign an ICD-10 code to half of the record a accurately a human coder can. For the remainder, the coder is given suggestions, simplifying the coding work and further training the model. Events & Webinars September 18 May 23 May 22 | 14:30 May 15 | 16:00 Our communityWould you like to join our community? Please contact u at . Do you want to stay informed?A lot is happening in the field of data sharing and cloud. Stay informed about our activity and relevant news and events.Subscribe to the newsletter of the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC). Frequently Asked Questions The CoE-DSC function a a central hub for market player seeking solution to develop trust in data sharing by providing access to relevant tools, knowledge, and best practices. The CoE-DSC is an open collaborative initiative seeking alignment with sectoral data sharing initiative avoid fragmentation in solutions. CoE-DSC combine all knowledge and expertise that ha been developed within the Working Group Data Sharing of the NL AIC, the Data Sharing Coalition, and the Gaia-X Hub NL, and provides access to open-source components, standard and implementation that are currently available in the market. At the moment, further information on the tool and guideline can be found on the website of the original initiatives. All document can be downloaded on the website of the original initiatives. Links to existing tool and guideline are:Furthermore, we are currently working on creating an inventory of reusable open-source components, standards, and implementation available in the market. Members of the CoE-DSC community get the opportunity to participate in the development of (cross-sectoral) data sharing use case with support from expert andtools, gain and share knowledge about (cross-sectoral) data sharing through participation in various activity organized by the CoE-DSC and collaborate with other participants.This mean being involved in new initiative and projects, and becoming part of an open and active community that will enrich your network. No membership fee is charged to CoE-DSC community members. However, we do ask an in-kind commitment from our community members. In-kind commitment consists of actively contributing to the knowledge community by attending community activities, a well a participating in the development of data sharing use cases. Organisations that are interested can join the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud by following these four simple steps:Reach out to the dedicated project team of the CoE-DSC to express interest in joining the CoE-DSC community by sending an email to:Join an introductory appointment/intake call to get acquainted and to discus the detail of participation (role and commitment)Confirm participation, agreed role, and level of commitmentGet onboarded and invited to all relevant meeting Contact u If you have any question please send u an email at . 2024 Cookies To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Menu Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC)The true value of data can only be realised if it is shared and re-used throughout the digital economy. The CoE-DSC aim to unlock this value by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing.Who we areOne central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challengesThe Centre of Excellence Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC) support organisation with establishing trust mechanism for secure and trusted data sharing, ensuring that they can tap into the business opportunity this transformative practice offers. Our mission is to unlock the true value of data sharing by supporting organisation in realising scalable data spaces, the next evolutionary concept in data sharing. Through the development of generic building block and collaborative efforts, we enable easier and cost-effective implementation of data space across sector and geographies.The CoE-DSC is the central hub in the Netherlands to find answer to data sharing challenges. We bring together the expertise and achievement of the Data Sharing Coalition, the Data Sharing working group of the Dutch AI Coalition (NL AIC), and the Gaia-X Hub Netherlands. By uniting these forces, we aim to prevent fragmentation and provide the Dutch data sharing community with a centralised hub of knowledge, tools, and expertise. Insights Parties interested in deploying a data space need to use the right technology and need to make sure they get the business and governance of the data space right. This is easier said than done, because there is relatively little guidance on how to deploy a data space successfully. What guidance can be given? In the Netherlands, there are various initiative that are working on improving the digital position of the country. How do the CoE-DSC and Topsector ICT collaborate? What are data sharing trend and how can we shape the future? Data space and Privacy Enhancing Technologies have a common goal: making insight from data accessible in a confidential manner. But the development of both is driven by two different communities. This must change. By applying PETs within data spaces, confidentially exchanging insight from (privacy sensitive) data becomes more scalable. Use case Our participant Linksight collaborates with DSW, the municipality of Delft and elderly care organisation Pieter van Foreest and us Multi-party Computation to generate insight without sharing the data itself, which help to monitor and improve elderly care. Together with our participant SBR Nexus, data of industry association member is shared with industry association to create valuable insight about the whole sector. Together with participant Knights Analytics and Roseman Labs, we examined the application of Artificial Intelligence Entity Resolution technology to help combat financial crime. Together with our participant Impact IoT Solutions and HAN and De Marke, we examine the value potential of new data source for dairy farming and the most important condition to unlock these new data source in a use case. Together with our participant Sustainable Rescue Foundation, Roseman Labs and NGOs and other participants, we work on a use case that focus on secure data exchange between different party monitoring human trafficking. A model ha been developed that can automatically assign an ICD-10 code to half of the record a accurately a human coder can. For the remainder, the coder is given suggestions, simplifying the coding work and further training the model. Events & Webinars September 18 May 23 May 22 | 14:30 May 15 | 16:00 Our communityWould you like to join our community? Please contact u at . Do you want to stay informed?A lot is happening in the field of data sharing and cloud. Stay informed about our activity and relevant news and events.Subscribe to the newsletter of the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud (CoE-DSC). Frequently Asked Questions The CoE-DSC function a a central hub for market player seeking solution to develop trust in data sharing by providing access to relevant tools, knowledge, and best practices. The CoE-DSC is an open collaborative initiative seeking alignment with sectoral data sharing initiative avoid fragmentation in solutions. CoE-DSC combine all knowledge and expertise that ha been developed within the Working Group Data Sharing of the NL AIC, the Data Sharing Coalition, and the Gaia-X Hub NL, and provides access to open-source components, standard and implementation that are currently available in the market. At the moment, further information on the tool and guideline can be found on the website of the original initiatives. All document can be downloaded on the website of the original initiatives. Links to existing tool and guideline are:Furthermore, we are currently working on creating an inventory of reusable open-source components, standards, and implementation available in the market. Members of the CoE-DSC community get the opportunity to participate in the development of (cross-sectoral) data sharing use case with support from expert andtools, gain and share knowledge about (cross-sectoral) data sharing through participation in various activity organized by the CoE-DSC and collaborate with other participants.This mean being involved in new initiative and projects, and becoming part of an open and active community that will enrich your network. No membership fee is charged to CoE-DSC community members. However, we do ask an in-kind commitment from our community members. In-kind commitment consists of actively contributing to the knowledge community by attending community activities, a well a participating in the development of data sharing use cases. Organisations that are interested can join the Centre of Excellence for Data Sharing and Cloud by following these four simple steps:Reach out to the dedicated project team of the CoE-DSC to express interest in joining the CoE-DSC community by sending an email to:Join an introductory appointment/intake call to get acquainted and to discus the detail of participation (role and commitment)Confirm participation, agreed role, and level of commitmentGet onboarded and invited to all relevant meeting Contact u If you have any question please send u an email at . 2024 Cookies To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent