The portal is a central point of access to European open data from international, European Union, national, regional, local and geodata portals. It consolidates the former EU Open Data Portal and the European Data Portal. The portal is intended to: give access and foster the reuse of European open data among citizens, business and organisations. promote and support the release of more and better-quality metadata and data by the EU’s institutions, agency and other bodies, and European countries, enhancing the transparency of European administrations. educate citizen and organisation about the opportunity that arise from the availability of open data. The two former portal EU Open Data Portal and European Data Portal, launched respectively in 2012 and 2015, were originally established on the basis of Directive 2003/98/EC to promote accessibility to and the reuse of public sector information. The successor directive Directive 2013/37/EU and Directive (EU) 2019/1024 confirmed and extended it action. The latter invite all the EU Member States to make available their public data resources, contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market and the proper development of the information society in the EU. Currently in it third iteration, the portal merges the activity of the European Data Portal (which focused exclusively on EU Member States and other European countries) and of the EU Open Data Portal (which served data from the EU institutions, agencies, and bodies) into one. It is funded by the EU and managed operationally by the Publications Office of the European Union in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology of the European Commission, responsible for EU open data policy. The mission, vision and value of data.europa.eu are part of those from the Publications Office of the European Union (OP) with respect to open data. OP mission. The Publications Office of the European Union is the official provider of publishing service to all EU institutions, bodies, and agencies. As such, it is a central point of access to EU law, publications, open data, research results, procurement notice and other official information. Its mission is to support EU policy and ensure that this broad range of information is available to the public a accessible and reusable data to facilitate transparency, economic activity, and the diffusion of knowledge. OP vision. A well-informed EU, empowered by timely and effective access to trustworthy information and knowledge and benefiting from all the opportunity this brings to society and the economy. OP values. Transparency -- we facilitate transparency throughout the policy cycle of the EU institution to enhance evidence-based decision-making, accountability, civic participation, and democracy. Trustworthiness -- we strive to ensure that the content we provide is accurate and reliable so that citizen trust the EU a a provider of information. Accessibility -- we believe access to information is a human right that all citizen should enjoy regardless of language, culture, disability, social status, location, technology, or the way they understand information. Service orientation -- we are committed to continuously improving our service to both our institutional stakeholder and EU citizen because we want to contribute to the European project in the best possible way. The portal is a metadata catalogue. To foster the comparability of data published across borders, it present metadata reference using the application profile for data portal in Europe (Data Catalogue Vocabulary (DCAT-AP)), using Resource Description Framework (RDF) technology. It provides translation of metadata description in all 24 official EU language using machine-translation technology (eTranslation). In some situations, metadata machine-based translation might not be a efficient a human translation. Our service are focused around three main spheres: Data provider -- any entity that give access and distributes data to the public. To ensure the reliability of the published resource in the portal, the data provider of the portal are official representative from supranational, national and local public administration. Data user -- any person or entity who access and consumes data for any purpose. These include a wide range of data user who visit the portal for different purposes: non-governmental organisations, international organisations, private sector, academia, students, etc. Data literacy -- the ability to read, understand, create, and communicate data a information. Much like literacy a a general concept, data literacy focus on the competency involved in working with data. The ‘data providers’ (EU institutions, agency and EU bodies, Member States, and other European countries) are autonomous in publishing their metadata (which give you access to their data) in data.europa.eu. The portal also publishes datasets of organisation beyond the EU. The portal is being updated whenever new datasets and content are available. In addition to the vast collection of public datasets, most of them published in open formats, we offer additional content and related services: training material on open data in the data.europa academy study such a Open Data Maturity or The Economic Impact of Open Data; news and data story a metadata quality dashboard assessing metadata quality against various findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR) indicator a licencing assistant the possibility of storing your data under certain condition (please contact us) the social medium channel (X, LinkedIn, YouTube, Facebook) a list of event with the most relevant event taking place a monthly Newsletter New feature for registered user will be added soon to data.europa.eu. The whole source code of the portal is available at GitLab for free reuse. How to contribute to the portal: - Give u feedback, for example, suggest new functionality you would like to see on the portal - Suggest a portal to be harvested by u - Share your data use story in which we can promote the use of data Several policy and legal development on EU open data have taken place since 2003. The European open data space is an essential element of the single market for data -- an EU-wide interoperable data space that will enable the development of new product and service based on public data and industrial and scientific applications. It focus on the implementation of EU open data and reuse policy under the legal act adopted by the EU institutions. The Publications Office of the EU work on all four European open data space building block and their objectives: - providing a comprehensive catalogue of open data and citizen-centric reuse services; - improving the interlinking and interoperability of open data with other source of public-sector information, such a legislation, publication and digital content; - fostering the use of data from EU content through the organisation of EU Datathon competition and data visualisation events; - contributing to the implementation of data governance and policy across the EU institutions.