multi-stakeholder initiative with the aim of raising wider patient and public awareness about the importance of health data, improving understanding of how it is used and establishing a trusted environment for multi-stakeholder dialogue about responsible use and good practice across Europe. Led by European Patients Forum (EPF) and i-HD sharing relevant information and best practice example about the use of health data and generating easy-to-use material about the basic concept related to data sharing, the data journey and the safeguard in place. Vision: A Europe where trustworthy data sharing support health and scientific research to meet the need of patient and address the challenge faced by our healthcare system Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource NEW BLOG NEW BLOG NEW BLOG DSL TOOLKIT 2.0 The toolkit aim to equip patient group and health influencers with the information and material they need to have a positive dialogue with their community about health data and to potentially launch their own health data initiatives. How can sharing your health data help others? In the last 5 years, more scientific data ha been generated than in the entire history of mankind Societies that can reliably and responsibly record and share the health data of it citizen across research community will advance the understanding of diseases, allow new medicine to be developed more quickly, and empower individual to benefit others with the same or other medical conditions.The responsible use of our health data will improve the wellbeing of citizens, make our healthcare system effective, data-driven and easier to use, speed up scientific research, and make healthcare service more sustainable in a Europe that will remain a global leader in medical innovation. EARLY DETECTION OF A CANCER KILLER How doe access to health data help identify people at high risk of bowel cancer? Protecting Health Data 73% of EU citizen want to share health data on the precondition that data is secure and only accessible by authorised partiessource: ec.europa.eu/health/Every patient must be able to find out how their data is used and the protection that are in place to keep it secure. The more informed people feel, the more likely they are to support the use of data sharing. So, it is of utmost importance to our initiative to keep people health data safe and secure and communicate how we do this to the public. With data privacy playing a more significant role in both the public conversation and the legal environment with the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, it is critical to understand how popular view on health data are evolving. Patient spotlight: how data can save life Data story: A friend life wa transformed by a revolutionary drug Robert Johnstone Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data Explained Overview - Health dataWhat is health data? Health data refers to any data describing a person health, their healthcare or anything affecting any health issue or disease they may have. This includes information created by health and care professionals, a well a information generated by patients; from illness monitored through mobile application and smart devices, to screening test and nutritional data. Any health data is personal and private, so it must be kept safe and secure at all times. Surveys show that while people are generally comfortable with anonymised health data being used in healthcare services, research and other situation where there is a public benefit, they also would like the power to decide who get to use the data, and for what purposes. What is Big Data? The term Big Data is increasingly used to describe extensive collection of data, called repositories. In healthcare, Big Data is often used to describe large healthcare database or network of interconnected healthcare database coming from multiple organisations. From these databases, we can collate and study data involving large patient number in order to improve healthcare delivery and aid future research. Why is health data important? View fullsize Healthcare system are challenged by growing and ageing population who are living with more chronic disease. There is an urgent need for more effective and smarter medicine to deliver better care to patients. Learnings from health data can help contribute to discovery that will show u how to make these improvements. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data Explained What is health data?What are the different type of health data? Data help u to understand a person's health, their health risk and how their health is being managed. Different type of health data include: Information created by health and care professionals:Electronic health records.National healthcare database holding item like prescriptions, laboratory tests, and detail about important disease like cancer.Information created by patients:Monitoring illness using computer or mobile phone applications.Wearable device such a smartwatches for fitness monitoring and tracking change relevant to medical conditions.How people prevent illness or detect illness early, such a screening test and dietary monitoring.Social medium post can be analysed anonymously in aggregate form, for example, to discover how many people are discussing certain side effect of a new treatment.Wider information that can affect people health, such a climate and pollution monitoring data. We need to co-operate much more in-betweendifferent part of the health care system but alsobetween the health care system and patient Hanna Svensson Personal sensor data is expected to grow from 10% of all stored information to 90% within the next decade. Thankfully, many healthcare organisation no longer use paper: health record are collected electronically, making the data easier to analyse. Alongside the information collected from patients, all this data can help study large populations, discover new knowledge, provide insight into the health need of patients, and improve treatment outcomes. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data Explained What is big data?What doe Big Data involve?The term Big Data originated from the discipline of computer science, it wa initially used to describe large, rapidly growing and complex database with a high volume of data. In a healthcare setting, Big Data is used to describe the extensive healthcare database (like electronic health record systems) or network of interconnected healthcare database (called linked databases) coming from multiple healthcare organisations. We need to study the data on large patient number to conduct specific type of research. For example, we would use big data to identify specific or unusual pattern of a health condition, to investigate the impact of different treatment used to treat a condition or to discover rare side-effects or long-term health outcomes. This growing research need requires greater investment by country and company to establish network that allow large-scale data analysis. We can expect to see a growing number of new insight and advance from the analysis of big data. Hopefully, this will involve the rapid development of new medicine and medical devices, a well a smart application to support healthcare professional and patientsCommunities of patient with rare diseases, alongside the health professional and scientist involved, are trailblazer in how to work together to advance our understanding of disease and the best treatments. We strive to enable data science to transform public health. A few of the societal benefit that may arise from analysing big data include: Increasing the effectiveness and quality of treatments. Identifying risk factor and thus preventing disease or conditions.Improving patient safety by delivering patient information directly to healthcare professionals.Predicting outcome and identifying pathway in disease transmission, making them preventable.Disseminating knowledge.Reducing inefficiency by identifying healthcare system that do not work well.What doe this look like in reality? So far, published finding derived from big data include:Validating >200 novel biomarkers predicting cardiovascular risk. Investigating variation of 174,000 observed national prescribing pattern to national guideline for COPD.Comparing ~8,000 treatment outcome for leukaemia by age: uncovering a major unmet treatment need.Mining >700 million record to develop new cancer risk stratification algorithms.You can find these and other example of research using big data in our Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data Explained Why is health data important?Public health could be dramatically transformed by data science. Healthcare system are increasingly challenged by growing and ageing population who are living with more chronic disease. More effective and smarter medicine is needed to deliver better care to patients. The challenge is to deliver this within the same healthcare budgets. New opportunity are arising for treatment through genetics, and better decision making is possible using algorithm and artificial intelligence. Learning more from health data can support these change and help achieve better care in a cost-efficient manner. Benefits for Patients When health provider have access to a patient up-to-date health data, they can provide more efficient, higher quality, safer and more personalised care and care coordination. Patients looking at their own health data gain insight into how their health is evolving over time. They will be more health literate and empowered, allowing them to adapt their lifestyle more easily, which ha a positive impact on their care outcome and quality of life. Moreover, they will better interact with their health and care professionals.Health data provided to scientific research will speed up the development of new medical product and treatment for individual who need them. Healthcare systemsOrganisations working with health data are developing many vitally needed healthcare improvement that: Identify risk factor and speed up diagnosis.Identify pathway in disease transmission, thus preventing disease or conditions.Predict outcome and increase the effectiveness of treatments.Improve the quality and safety of treatments.Disseminate knowledge.Enhance public health strategy. Healthcare providersIndividual health and care professional and provider organisation can use health data to: Redesign better care pathways.Improve patient care.Gain insight for strategic planning and organisational quality improvement.Utilise healthcare resource more efficiently.Participate in more clinical research. Medical researchHealth data can support research organisation and scientific association to develop new treatment and devices, such as: A new drug to help tackle a cancer that is difficult to treat, developed by a pharmaceutical company.An infusion pump that delivers a controlled dose of medication to somebody continuously while they are at work or home, developed by a medical device manufacturer.A smart monitoring system that give the patient an alert on their mobile phone when a blood measurement need urgent attention, developed by a health software company.A better way to support patient with advanced dementia in their home, pioneered by a social service organisation.Every country need to use it population health data to learn how healthcare can be better delivered. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data Explained Data protectionMany patient are surprised that health data is not better utilised, especially within national health systems. However, it is also known from survey that member of the public are concerned about what they read and hear about data breaches. Many of those breach are in other industry sectors. People are sometimes anxious about how well their health data can be securely stored and communicated where it is needed.Because accurate data is so important for our healthcare systems, public bodies, care professional and industry need to work together to enable the better use of health data, and to do it in trustworthy ways. Patients are really willing to donate data but there is always the aspect of trust Mitchell Silva Mitchell Silva, patient representative The result of the use of health data must be translated back into improvement for patients. Shared and aggregated health dataData is originally collected by different organisations, for different purposes, most commonly to support the health and care to individuals. These organisation hold patient data in order to ensure that patient continue to receive the best possible care. It is generally accepted by most health systems, and by most patients, that an organisation like a hospital will examine it own collection of patient data in order to identify way that it can improve the quality, timeliness and safety of care that it team deliver. However, this data can be aggregated at a larger population level, for a wider range of learning and improved health care for patient across a wide range of settings. This may be within a country or across many countries. It is absolutely essential that the privacy of individual is protected when using their health data for learning, quality improvement and research. Data protection measure View fullsize GDPR Personal data about European citizen is legally protected, most recently through the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018. Patients must now be told how their data will be used, for what purposes, and how it will be protected. In some situation patient will be asked to formally consent to particular us of their data, for example by signing a consent form. Codes of practice Health data user need to adopt strict code of practice that comply with the GDPR. Codes of practice can also ensure that the purpose for which data is used meet the following criteria: they have a legal basis they are in society interest they are ethical. It is expected by patient that health data user will only use the data for the purpose that are permitted. Information security measure Information security is a method that us different measure to protect computer systems, network and their data from any accidental or deliberate disclosure, access or damage. An organisation using health data must adopt recognised information security practice to protect the data in their possession and while being used by their staff. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About What is Data Saves Lives? Data Saves Lives is a multi-stakeholder initiative with the aim of raising wider patient and public awareness about the importance of health data, improving understanding of how it is used and establishing a trusted environment for multi-stakeholder dialogue about responsible use and good practice across Europe.Led by the(EPF) and the(i~HD) Data Saves Lives ha launched this web portal, sharing relevant information and best practice example about the use of health data and generating easy-to-use material about the basic concept related to data sharing, the data journey and the safeguard in place.All content is reviewed by an independentand user group, to ensure accuracy, neutrality, usability and accessibility. Our material are developed in English and our aim is that these can be easily translated and adapted for local context across Europe.Data Saves Lives ha a crucial role in exploring societal question about the us of health data and supporting stakeholder dialogue, with a view to enhancing trust and cooperation.We aim to stimulate a structured and meaningful discourse within the health data community about responsible use of data and to capture, share and discus view on other data related issues.Our vision is A Europe where trustworthy data sharing support health and scientific research to meet the need of patient and address the challenge faced by our healthcare systemsOur mission is to create a European Health Data Portal that will build awareness and understanding on:1. why data is important2. how it is used3. provide a trusted environment for dialogue about the use of health data in EuropeThe initiative is being led by a. EPF chair this group and host the secretariat.i~HDleads on content development.An advisory board is currently being established, comprising a wide range of health data community stakeholders. They will help to guide u on the different perspective we need to convey when explaining the us of health data.Start-up funding for the initiative ha been provided by the(EFPIA) andas an unrestricted educational grant. The funders have no control over the content.This Data Saves Lives European initiative contributes to, and connects with, a global#and the corresponding Twitter handle. For more information, please contact Gzde Susuzlu, Data Saves Lives Coordinator at . Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Team Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Editorial Board Editorial Board Social Media & Digital Health Expert, Journalist, Speaker and Analyst, EUPATI Fellow 2015 Associate Professor of Health Care Ethics Manager at Health Connect Partners, EU Programme Director for Personal Connected Health Alliance, and senior advisor on digital health for FTI Consulting Adviser on the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) Patient and Public Panel at Imperial College, an EIT External Adviser PhD in Health Psychology and Consultant Medical Writer Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Advisory Board Terje Peetso Member Of The Management Board North Estonia Medical Centre Professor Mark Lawler Chair in Translational Cancer Genomics at Queen's University Belfast Robert S. Greene HungerNdThirst Foundation Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Core Strategy OrganisationsAlzheimer Europe is a non-profit non-governmental organisation (NGO) aiming to provide a voice to people withand their carers, make dementia a European priority, promote a rights-based approach to dementia, support dementia research and strengthen the European dementia movement. The European Patients Forum (EPF) is an umbrella organisation that work with patient group in public health and health advocacy across Europe. Our member represent specific chronic disease group at EU level or are national coalition of patients. The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) represents the pharmaceutical industry operating in Europe. The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is a not for profit institute that promotes, develops and share good practices, tool and quality assessment to maximise community value from health data for innovation in health, care and research. The Irish Platform for Patient Organisations, Science and Industry is a patient-led organisation that work with patients, government, industry, science and academia to put patient at the heart of health innovation. MedTech Europes mission is to make innovative medical technology available to more people, while helping healthcare system move towards a sustainable path. MedTech Europe encourages policy that help the medical technology industry meet Europes growing healthcare need and expectations. The Multiple Sclerosis Data Alliance (MSDA) is a multi-stakeholder collaboration working to accelerate research insight for innovative care and treatment for people with MS Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Governance and Editorial PrinciplesUphold high ethical and moral standard of editorial conduct.Appoint a balanced multi-stakeholder . Be transparent about:relevant interests;our principles;board decisions.Make clear the purpose of Data Saves Lives, which is to:convey real-world example of how health data are being used to generate research result of societal value;demonstrate how health data for research is being used in trustworthy ways;encourage and structure stakeholder discourse about data use and acceptable safeguards.Make clear what our purpose is not:It is not to promote the importance of, or to defend, any stakeholder group or actor.It is not to make generalised statement on which kind of user should be permitted access to health data for research.It is not to advocate any universally appropriate purpose of use.Ensure transparency regarding the funding of Data Saves Lives and the limitation of funder influence on our content.Explanatory material and resource must be factual.Be aware of the cultural sensitivity regarding the use of data in research.The spectrum of case study example must be balanced across: type of user;purposes of use;geographies;health systems;types of health data;positive, negative and inconclusive examples. disease areas;kinds of research;various lifecycle point of discovery and development;publicly and industry sponsored;Utilise interview and quote that are balanced across stakeholder and attitudes, reflecting a proportioned variety of opinion including those that are conservative about the use of data for research. Ensure a mix across data subjects, data user and research beneficiaries.Publicise well-conducted openly-published study on citizen perspective and preference for the use of their health data, for research and other reuse purposes.Present factual report on innovation in data protection and security, forthcoming legislation, and emerging standard (such a code of practice), that enable safer handling of health data.Make sure all case studies, interview and quote are not promotional, nor making unfounded promise or accusations. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Global movement #DataSavesLives The European Patients Forum () and the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data () set up the Data Saves Lives website a a trustworthy environment for dialogue across Europe about health data, part of the global #DataSavesLives movement. Since 2014 an increasing number of universities, research organisations, the clinical research industry and charity have been united in their effort to gain public trust by supporting #DataSavesLives.Using events, activities, digital media, case studies, testimonial and imagery, #DataSavesLives is a multi-platform campaign that seek to demonstrate the trustworthy re-use of health data and kick-start a public conversation. #DataSavesLives ha been used over 14,000 time in a single year on Twitter alone, with interest and discussion growing.Having originated at s in 2014, #DataSavesLives is creating an online digital library that seek to raise the public awareness of how health data is created, linked and analysed by investigator conducting research, service development and service evaluation.Existing beyond organisational and geographical boundary #DataSavesLives ha now been adopted by a number of important research network and stakeholder groups, both past and present. These include the North of Englands programme, the UK-wide and , the , the , the , , the (WHO), , the (EPF) and European Institute for (i~HD), who have set up this site.For further information on the origin of #DataSavesLives, see . A scientific publication about how #Datasaveslives ha been used since it instigation, and by whom, is in the pipeline. Stephen Melia, #DataSavesLives creator, and , Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource About Contact Us Name * First Name Last Name Email * Subject * Message * Thank you! We will get in touch with you a soon a possible. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Case StudiesThere is a wide range of way that patient data can be used to provide better care and improve health. On this page you can read case study of health data sharing initiative and how they have benefitted patients, healthcare system and wider society. We encourage you to share your case study to help others learn from your experience. Please submit your case study to u by completing this and sending it to Data Saves Lives team at Featured Nov 23, 2022 Nov 23, 2022 Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is a rare genetic and progressive neuromuscular condition, which occurs in around 1 in every 6,000 to 10,000 live births. While symptom do vary from person to person, it cause progressive muscle weakness and wasting. It can have significant health impacts. In severe cases, if left untreated, it is usually fatal by the age of around two years. Nov 23, 2022 Sep 7, 2022 Sep 7, 2022 In this case study we examine how analysis of real-world patient data gathered from local Health Units can be a useful tool to ass adherence to treatment Sep 7, 2022 Jul 6, 2022 Jul 6, 2022 Using National Cancer Registry data for the benefit of the brain tumour community Jul 6, 2022 Mar 31, 2021 Mar 31, 2021 Discovering a test to detect those at risk of developing Alzheimer's Disease Mar 31, 2021 Mar 30, 2021 Mar 30, 2021 Helping identification of people at high risk of colorectal cancer from an existing blood test Mar 30, 2021 Mar 31, 2021 Mar 31, 2021 Analysis of over 2 million anonymous patient record to establish how increasing body weight approaching obesity increase the risk of developing liver disease Mar 31, 2021 Mar 30, 2021 Mar 30, 2021 A novel computer programme to help doctor and scientist to better understand which other disease are likely to occur in patient with cancer. Mar 30, 2021 Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Patient registry are a valuable source of real-world data (RWD)What is the health challenge?Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is a rare genetic and progressive neuromuscular condition, which occurs in around 1 in every 6,000 to 10,000 live births. While symptom do vary from person to person, it cause progressive muscle weakness and wasting. It can have significant health impacts. In severe cases, if left untreated, it is usually fatal by the age of around two years.What wa the purpose of the research using real-world data?Although there have been major advance in clinical care and treatment of SMA in recent years, with three treatment approved by regulator in the EU, most clinical trial have focused on the safety and effectiveness of treatment in child and babies, with very limited data available in adult (aged 18 year and older). It is therefore difficult to demonstrate the clinical effectiveness of treatment in the adult population, so evidence must be derived from other sources. With the help of RWD, which is derived from use in clinical practice, further evidence of treatment effectiveness in adult population can be collected. So how is RWD collected? Patient registry are an organised way of collecting RWD using observational method and following the same patient over time. They may be organised a either disease or product (treatment) registries. Most registry in SMA are disease registries, enrolling patient regardless of treatment status to further characterise the natural history of the disease (which is often limited in rare disease) a well a the effectiveness and real-world safety of different SMA treatments. Collating patient information in disease registry help to avoid fragmented or siloed approach for collecting RWD, which may arise when data is gathered with individual product registries. Why and how wa health data used?At the time of initial EU marketing authorisation in May 2017 for the first treatment in SMA, the completed clinical trial included participant of different ages, disease stages, and severity, but there were limited data in adults. Since that time, evidence ha been collected from clinical practice to further support and inform the safe and effective use of such treatment in adults. This includes RWD generated from the collaborative network of SMA disease registries, in which participating patient have provided their consent for their data to be used for research purposes.In 2022, the product information wa updated to reflect this additional data on the clinical effectiveness in some SMA adult type II and III patients. Also, the real-world safety data in the adult population were shown to be consistent with the known safety profile of the treatment derived from clinical trials. This [label] update mean that adult with SMA and treating physician now have a greater understanding of the efficacy and safety of this treatment in a broader population.This case study is an example of how RWD can be used to provide additional useful information for patient and healthcare professionals. Despite this advancement, it is still relatively uncommon for this type of information to be used to support regulatory decision around effectiveness, and for it to be included in medicinal product labelling. However, a publication authored by European Medicines Agency (EMA) representatives1, endorses that rigorous RWE alongside clinical trial data should be viewed a complementary, and together may be informative for establishing treatment effectiveness in certain regulatory use cases. What is the benefit to healthcare?Patient registry are an important source of RWD, which can be analysed and translated into RWE. The inclusion of RWE information in product information is support by the regulatory agency and provides healthcare professional with the reassurance they need to rely on this to make clinical decisions. The case study is hoped to be the first of many example where RWE is used to inform label updates.Patient database hold the key to optimising treatment option and require collaborationPatient disease registry have considerable potential to generate valuable information and contribute to our understanding in certain disease areas, but they require investment in resources, capacity and co-ordination to fully deliver on this promise. establishing and managing SMA patient registries, in collaboration with academic and treatment centres, is a great example of how the power of data can be unlocked through the appropriate use of resource and multi-stakeholder collaboration. It requires strong co-operative partnership to ensure that registry become increasingly harmonised and interoperable to generate high-quality real-world data to support decision making by different stakeholders, including regulator and reimbursement authorities, in the future. 'With Special thanks to Simon Bennett, Director, Global Regulatory Policy ECP at Biogen' Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Using real world data (RWD) from patient database to understand who could benefit from treatment In this case study we examine how analysis of real-world patient data gathered from local Health Units can be a useful tool to ass adherence to treatment, in addition to estimating the population who might benefit from a fixed-dose combination medicine. Medication adherence is a significant issue for many patient with co-morbidities Cardiovascular disease (CVDs) are the most common cause of death worldwide. World Health Organization (WHO) estimate that 17.9 million people died from CVDs in 2019, equating to 32% of all global deaths. Many patient have multiple CVD risk factors, such a high blood pressure, high cholesterol and high lipids, and therefore require multiple different treatment to manage these conditions. However, study have shown that in real-world settings, treatment adherence is poor in this patient group., Understanding treatment adherence is a complex issue, with many factor contributing towards this, such a a patient personality, socio-economic status, and the ability to communicate with their clinical team. Low adherence reduces treatment benefit for patient and in turn place a significant burden on the healthcare system a treatment take longer. Therefore, there is an urgent need to simplify treatment regimen of the existing best in class molecule to increase adherence and to improve clinical outcomesRWD is a valuable source of patient information One study, which is the focus of this case study, looked to determine the number of patient who might be eligible for a triple fixed-dose treatment (a single tablet combining atorvastatin/perindopril/amlodipine (CTAPA)), and to estimate if an unmet medical need exists among these patients. Patient anonymity is paramount to ethical research This wa an observational retrospective study based on data from 2,292 adult patients, which wa obtained from three Italian Local Health Units. Each patient wa identified in the database by an anonymous code, therefore no identifier related to patient were provided to the researchers. All the result were produced a aggregated summary (collective data), which are not possible to assign, either directly or indirectly, to the individual patients. RWD data can be used to understand current unmet need All patient had a prescription for CTAPA a individual tablets, and the study found that only around half (54%) of patient took their treatment a prescribed. The finding allowed the team to estimate a clear unmet need. Considering the total Italian national population, approximately 69,665 patient with high blood pressure were potentially eligible for treatment with fixed-dose combination therapy during 2014, which may have improved adherence.This is an excellent example of how RWD can be used to provide evidence of an important unmet need, which could only have been identified using real-world evidence analysis. The finding can help healthcare professional and researcher to explore possible interventions, which in this case, could be a simplified treatment regime (fixed-dose combination medicine) that may improve adherence levels. Further information High Blood Pressure & Cardiovascular Prevention (2019) 26:399-404 With Special thanks to Samuele Doratori, Head of Cardiometabolic and Venous Diseases at Global Medical and Patient Affairs (GMPA), SERVIER, Valerie Lehner-Martin, Medical Excellence and Real-World Director, GMPA SERVIER , and Luca Degli Esposti, CEO, CliCon S.r.l. Societ Benefit Health, Economics & Outcomes Research, Bologna. World Health Organization. Cardiovascular disease (CVDs).[Internet].. Accessed 1 August2022 Perrone V, Veronesi C, Gambera M, Nati G, Perone F, Tagliabue PF, Degli Esposti L, Volpe M. Treatment with Free Triple Combination Therapy of Atorvastatin, Perindopril, Amlodipine in Hypertensive Patients: A Real-World Population Study in Italy. High Blood Press Cardiovasc Prev. 2019 Oct;26(5):399-404. doi: 10.1007/s40292-019-00336-2. Epub 2019 Aug 28. PMID: 31463886. Crim MT, Yoon SSS, Ortiz E, Wall HK, Schober S, Gillespie C, et al. National surveillance definition for hypertension prevalence and control among adults. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2012;5(3):34351. Volpe M, Tocci G, Trimarco B, Rosei EA, Borghi C, Ambrosioni E, et al. Blood pressure control in Italy: result of recent survey on hypertension. J Hypertens. 2007;25(7):14918. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Using National Cancer Registry data for the benefit of the brain tumour communityIn 2015, brain cancer charity, braintrust, saw an opportunity: a widening gap between the traditional approach to epidemiology of cancer and question that the clinical and patient community have. There wa a need, and scope, for an evolving registration service to develop the conversation about cancer beyond such traditional indicator as:1, 3, and 5 year survival Mortality and morbidityPrevalenceIncidenceGenderAgeThe aim wa to broaden the discourse around epidemiology of care so that the some of the wider question that patients, carers and clinician have around care could be addressed. The charity looked at registry data in new way to address important question for the brain tumour community and established a process that can be used by other cancer sites. The policy context for this piece of work is significant. At the Britain Against Cancer conference (Dec 2017) the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Cancer published it inquiry Progress of the England Cancer Strategy: Delivering outcome by 2020?. Among concern raised in the inquiry is that the APPG is calling for NHS England and Public Health England to increase data transparency by making more of it available to the public and that this must include rare and le common cancers, all aspect of the patient pathway, and national and local data. [1] Six year since the launch of braintrusts project, the system are well established, patient anonymity guaranteed, and we now have unprecedented access to data on rarer and le common cancers, such a brain cancer.MethodologyIn order to fulfil it duty a a public health agency responsible for cancer prevention and control in England, the NDRS is expected to produce evidence about cancer incidence, diagnosis treatment and survival. It fulfils this critical function by a range of output (Standard Output Tables), including official statistic and reports, and support for public health research on cancer. The Standard Output Grouping is a way of partitioning all diagnosis of cancer into groups, where each group contains approximately 100 people with the same characteristics. The grouping can be viewed a a rooted branching tree, where the first node is the group 'all tumours', and each branch point divide by a dimension of interest (e.g. age, region, sex). If a node contains too few tumour then it cannot be divided further without making group of le than 100, and so the tree terminates there. If the node ha enough tumour it branch again by the next dimension of interest.Key findingsTop-level outcome from this work include: The development of the IT interface - it can be doneIt brings data to lifeThis work add colour to other datasets e.g. early diagnosisEmergent theme align with the James Lind Alliance Top Ten Uncertainties [2] Three theme emerged from the first statistical release, all of which require further investigation to tell a more informed story:10% of people with a non-malignant brain tumour (NMBT) do not survive one year. 5 9 year old receiving RT dropped from 43% in 2013 to 27% in 2014.We can see that group of people (30 49 yr old and 50 69 year olds) have similar treatment but have a big gap in outcomes.This initial release of data mark a watershed a Public Health England is able to ensure safe and secure policies, process and procedure are in place that meet the requirement of the law and best practice to ensure that patient data is shared in a way that doe not compromise anonymity. However, data on it own doe not tell a story. In writing the reports, each of which tell one story, braintrust is bringing meaningful narrative to this data, with the support of clinical, patient and public health partners. See an example of one of it report on the data here: .It is also working to make the data visually engaging, accessible and meaningful to the general public. You can see the data dashboard theyve created here: .As the project continues to generate data, it will continue to drive conversation on from traditional measure that focus on incidence and survival and help provide evidence at a whole population level, to support improved standard of care for people living with brain cancer and their families.We are delighted to have been able to support NDRS in this work and are grateful to everyone that ha worked so hard to manage our expectations.Many thanks to Helen Bulbeck, Director, braintrust, for sharing this case study a an example of how #DataSavesLives.brainstrust is the only UK wide brain cancer charity dedicated to helping patient and their caregivers. We know a brain tumour diagnosis is confusing, isolating and overwhelming. We know these problem are exacerbated by not being able to access care and information quickly and easily. And we also know that access to proactive support, and good information can improve knowledge and understanding, reduce anxiety, increase preparedness for events, instil control and improve satisfaction with treatment in brain tumour patients. Thats why were here.brainstrust: Enables patient to stand up for themselves, and therefore secure better outcomesSolves real problem collaborativelyCreates the vision for patient and caregiver to help them understand how their care should beProvides the patient/caregiver voiceWe give the brain tumour community the mean to have a voice at the time when it need it most. The result? A feeling of being in control, and better outcome for people living with a brain tumour.[1] APPG on Cancer Inquiry December 2017[2] Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Helping the Fight Against Alzheimer's DiseaseDiscovering a test to detect those at risk of developing Alzheimer's DiseaseWhat wa the health challenge?One of the main obstacle to finding a treatment for Alzheimers disease is difficulty detecting the condition in the earliest phases. There is no reliable test that can be used to indicate that a person is just starting to develop this form of dementia.What wa the purpose of the research?The research wa undertaken to find a new test or biomarker (indicator of the presence of Alzheimers) for use in future clinical research into this disease. The research required a blood sample from a thousand people that could be tested and from whom the Alzheimers process had been measured in spinal fluid or using brain imaging.Clinical data wa reused from over 1,000 patient who had previously given fully informed consent to be part of several study in different country across Europe. These study were already looking at the causes, natural history and progression of Alzheimers disease.Why and how wa health data used?Data included clinical observation and measurements, test result from brain imaging, biochemical test results, and genetic results. All the data wa and only the clinical data necessary for the study wa transferred to the university of Oxford and Maastricht for analysis.Setting up a research study to collect new data would have taken many year and been enormously expensive. Using pre-existing sample and data, this research could be performed very quickly and at a very low cost.What wa the legal basis for using the data?This use of health data complied with data protection legislation because all of the participant had given their fully-informed consent for their data to be used for this kind of research.What were the results?This research ha discovered a test that is likely to be very useful at predicting which patient are at high risk of developing Alzheimers disease.What wa the benefit to healthcare?The use of this new test will help to improve our understanding of Alzheimers disease and the provision of care. It will help future research to quickly discover patient at the earliest stage of Alzheimers disease, because these are the patient for whom research is likely to reveal the most effective new treatments.This work ha also shown how valuable research can be conducted using existing data and blood samples, reducing the time to get results.Further informationScientific research paper: Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Early Detection of a Cancer KillerHelping identification of people at high risk of colorectal cancer from an existing blood test. View fullsize What wa the health challenge?Cancer of the colon (also known a the bowel) and rectum (colorectal cancer) is the second most common cancer with more than 470,000 Europeans being diagnosed every year. It kill 228,000 Europeans every year. Like many cancers, the earlier this cancer is detected, the greater chance that treatment will be successful. It is for these reason that testing (called screening) of adult for colorectal cancer is available in some country a a routine, especially for patient with a family history of that condition. However, around half of the people that qualify for screening do not take up this offer.What wa the purpose of the research?This research wa undertaken to find out if it wa possible to detect those people at higher risk of this cancer by analysing result from a blood test that patient have already taken for other reasons, so they can be encouraged to attend for screening.Why and how wa health data used?Patient data were obtained from two independent sources: Maccabi Health Services (), one of the four Health Maintenance Organizations in Israel, and the UK Health Improvement Network (THIN). In all case the data were anonymous and only contained age, gender and several laboratory values. In addition, whether or not patient developed cancer wa identified from the cancer registry in Israel or the THIN database in the UK.The research developed a new algorithm to ass the risk of a person having colorectal cancer for people aged over 50. An algorithm is a set of rule used by, for example, a computer programme to analyse and process data to produce a specific output. Anonymous blood test result on 450,000 individual from MHS were analysed in order to develop this algorithm. This large number of patient test wa needed in order to detect rare combination of test result and cancer risk.Before being put into use, the algorithm wa tested on two separate and independent set of blood test result of primary care patients, containing over 139,000 further Israeli patient from MHS and over 25,500 British patient from THIN. Despite these different populations, the algorithm performed well in both set of blood test results.What wa the legal basis for using the data?This use of health data complied with data protection legislation because all patient record were by MHS or THIN before any researcher wa granted access.What were the results?The computer program is now available a part of a colorectal cancer screening system through the company . It is available in Israel and the UK, with other country expected to be added in the near future.What wa the benefit to patient and healthcare systems?By helping clinician to identify patient who may be at higher risk of colorectal cancer, those patient can be more strongly encouraged to attend for a formal screening. The initial experience of this algorithm is that 9% of people identified a being at high risk were then found on full screening to have a very early colorectal cancer, which could be treated.Further informationPeered review article:The additional evidence coming out of commercial usage of the model: Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study A link between Body Mass Index and non-alcoholic fatty liver diseaseWhat wa the health challenge?Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is usually a harmless condition of the liver. However, in some people it can proceed to inflammation of the liver which can then lead on to liver cirrhosis. Liver cirrhosis gradually destroys the liver cell so that the liver eventually fails. Body Mass Index (BMI) is a calculation, based on a person weight and height, to measure the extent to which someone is overweight or obese. A link between obesity and NAFLD ha been assumed for many year because of finding from research study involving small number of patients. There ha been no large-scale research studying the distribution and pattern of what level of BMI are linked to NAFLD.What wa the purpose of the research?The purpose of this study wa to better understand the link between BMI and NAFLD. It wa conducted by a collaborative team of research scientist from the British Heart Foundation, the University of Glasgow, Pfizer and GlaxoSmithKline.Why and how wa health data used?Using database that contain large amount of anonymised patient data it wa possible to conduct research into the link between BMI and NAFLD. Large patient number are needed to study which people with different BMI level over time do eventually develop NFALD, and which do not. Starting with database containing data on over 30 million patients, the research eventually studied the record of just over 2 million patient who had the necessary data recorded in the database, and who did not have other condition that would affect BMI or NAFLD. Two large anonymised health database were used in the research - the Health Improvement Network (THIN) database (UK) and the Humedica database (US). The data in these database contained routinely collected patient data from GPs, specialty care and hospitalisation in the year of 20072013, which had been carefully anonymised.What wa the legal basis for using the data?The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) doe not require a legal basis if the health data have been anonymised.What were the results?The result showed that there wa a continuous and strong link between a rising BMI and the diagnosis of NAFLD. The link wa stronger for men and for people with diabetes.What wa the benefit to patient and healthcare systems?This information is useful for patients, public health organisation and clinician when considering preventative health measure to reduce the likelihood of NAFLD for those patient who are overweight or obese.Further informationReinsert the link to the template Scientific research paper: Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study Big Data used for the early identification of other disease associated with cancerA novel computer programme to help doctor and scientist to better understand which other disease are likely to occur in patient with cancer.What wa the health challenge?There were 17 million new case of cancer worldwide in 2018 and that number continues to rise. Cancer ha a huge impact on patients. It is also a major burden for health care system across the world. Patients with cancer may be at a higher risk of also developing other diseases. If clinician knew which other disease have the highest risk of occurring in patient with each type of cancer, they could prioritise trying to detect that disease early or, if possible, prevent it from occurring.What wa the purpose of the research?This research wa undertaken to improve medical and research understanding of which additional disease are most likely to occur in patient with cancer. The work focused on patient with the nine most commonly occurring cancers. The researcher first looked at the disease most often occurring before each patient developed the cancer, in case any of those disease actually increased the risk of the cancer occurring. They then looked at disease occurring after the cancer wa diagnosed, in case the presence of the cancer increased a patient risk of certain other diseases. Their aim wa to develop a way of helping clinician and researcher in the future to discover which other disease might be associated with cancer in the same patient over time.Why and how wa health data used?Researchers working at the College of Medical Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University in Taiwan, obtained permission to analyse data from the Taiwan National Health Insurance database for almost all the Taiwanese population. This database contains health information on around 782 million outpatient visits. The data they analysed included outpatient visits, dental visits, hospitalisations, medication prescribed, medication refilled, laboratory and imaging examination and operations.What wa the legal basis for using the data?The data provided to the research team wa fully anonymised.What were the results?The patient record in the database were first grouped and analysed according to each patient age and gender. The computer programme wa set up to detect disease occurring in any patient within three year of each other, and to display these disease association in way that would help a scientist to determine the strongest disease connections. This data wa accumulated for million of patients, to highlight the disease association that occur most often, and have not just coincided by chance. This collection of disease association wa used to create a visual image that can be rotated or zoomed to enable very detailed inspection. Their system is called the Cancer Associations Map Animation (CAMA).What wa the benefit to healthcare systems?Patients with cancer could benefit from this development a their clinician can be more easily aware of which other disease a patient might be at risk from, seek to detect those early or possibly to avoid them occurring. The result of this research have been openly published. The CAMA computer system is also openly available to researchers, worldwide.This research is also an example of the benefit of using Big Data through the ability to analyse a large number of patient record whilst protecting each patient identity.Further informationScientific research paper: Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Case study How mHealth platform can provide pro-active and patient-driven follow-up care: a case study from SwedenAdvances in symptom tracking technology through mobile health (mHealth) platform have the potential not only to help individual and their clinician monitor their progress but to provide valuable real-world data that can be used by health regulator in decision around treatment reimbursement or update to standard of care. In this case study, we learn how the Cystic Fibrosis community in Sweden partnered with academic and technology developer to create an app to track symptom and the impact of treatment to support better clinical care. Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic condition affecting over 48,000 people across EuropePeople with CF experience a build-up of thick, sticky mucus in the lungs, digestive system and other organs. This lead to a wide range of symptom affecting the entire body. It is vital that people with CF receive regular care from a multidisciplinary team in a specialised CF clinic and access to the latest treatments. Advocacy is key to improving the life of people living with CFCF Europe, the European Federation of cystic fibrosis patient organisations, advocate for access to optimal treatment and care and promotes patient-centred research aimed at improving the life of all people with CF. As a membership organisation, CF Europe monitor and promotes advancement in health research led by their member which bring concrete change in different country across Europe. This article focus on the achievement of the Cystic Fibrosis community in Sweden.Real-time symptom tracking ha the potential to revolutionise how we evaluate medicine outside of clinical trialsAs new life-changing therapy for CF become available, Swedens CF stakeholder strive to build a system for structured follow-up and evaluation of new treatment for optimal care, best use of resource and patient participation. A national follow-up system, including the National CF Quality Registry and an integrated mHealth platform, Genia, wa developed for use when a decision for national reimbursement for CF-specific modulator therapy in 2018 wa reached.Patient group have a significant role to play to ensure mHealth solution meet the need of the communityThe mHealth platform, Genia, wa developed by Upstream Dream in collaboration with the Swedish CF community at Karolinska Institute in 2014. Genia wa first introduced to paediatric CF centre in Sweden and ha been well received by patients, with 65% to 87% of family using the app to track symptoms, activities, and aspect of daily care and share them with the clinical team. Genia support the upload of image (e.g., a patient may take a photo of their mucus) and upload it via the app and can connect to other apps or devices, such a electronic spirometer (a device to measure air volume from the lungs) and smart medication dispensers. Data collected meet National Registry standards, including e-prescription records, and is uploaded by clinicians.Ongoing learning and adjustment are important to deliver continued value from mHealth appsLund paediatric CF Centre ha been working with Genia since 2015 to support patient self-management, pre-visit planning and shared decision-making. Systems and process for working with Genia were already well established and institutionalised with the multi-disciplinary team at the paediatric program when a feature for CF modulator self-management and adherence support wa developed. This feature includes weekly treatment check-in report and question on antibiotic use that can be shared with healthcare teams.Lund paediatric CF Centre result a of December 2019:Of the patient on the new treatment, 84% (26) have the Genia app with treatment supportOf the Genia user with the treatment support feature, 58% (15) sent 2 check-in report in December and 88% (23) were active in the Genia app during the last 3 monthsSince the treatment wa made available in July 2018, a total of 491 CF modulators check-in report have been sent to the Lund paediatric CF CentreConclusions:After over a year, the Lund paediatric CF Centre ha shown significant success with the implementation of the Genia app for the follow-up of CF modulator therapiesIt ha contributed to patient participation, adherence support and patient educationThe use of Genia can allow patient to gather and share real world data with healthcare to support pro-active, patient-driven optimal careThank you to CF Europe for this case study.For more information on the Genia app: For information on the patient in the driver seat programme: Reference: Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Data Saves Lives Toolkit 2.0 The Data Saves Lives toolkit aim to equip patient group and health influencers with the information and material they need to have a positive dialogue with their community about health data and to potentially launch their own health data initiatives. You can download the material below. Toolkit Part one: Health Data 101: Understand and Communicate about the Power of Health Data View fullsize Part Two: AI: From Science Fiction to Science Fact Part Three: Establishing a Community-Led Patient Registry Key Terminology Ten thing you may not know about health data The development of this toolkit ha been made possible thanks to financial support from the following organisations:MedTech EuropeNovartisTakedaEFPIARocheThe European Artificial Intelligence (A.I) (NEF) FundThe European Patients Forum retains full editorial control of all content of Data Saves Lives materials. We are grateful to all sponsor who share in our goal to make the power of health data better understood and communicated by people across Europe and beyond. ARCHIVE: Toolkit 1.0 Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Featured Jan 5, 2024 Jan 5, 2024 On 5-6 December 2023, the third Data Saves Lives Ambassador Training Bootcamp wa held in Brussels, Belgium, in partnership with the The bootcamp centred on the process of establishing community-led patient registries. The ultimate aim wa to empower participant with insight into the step involved and the pivotal role of patient group in shaping registry design for community benefit. Jan 5, 2024 Sep 5, 2023 Sep 5, 2023 Digestive Cancers Europe (DiCE) is a non-profit, European umbrella organisation of a large group of international member representing patient with digestive cancer - colorectal, gastric, oesophageal, liver, pancreatic, and rare cancers. Sep 5, 2023 Sep 4, 2023 Sep 4, 2023 Health data and artificial intelligence (AI) undoubtedly hold a promising future within the realm of technology and research, with the potential to have a substantial impact on patient lives. Sep 4, 2023 May 11, 2023 May 11, 2023 Madeleine Brady, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patient, Engagement Consultant and formerly a comms lead for Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O), present a personal view on the impact of H2O on patients. May 11, 2023 May 8, 2023 May 8, 2023 In September 2022 Frontiers in Big Data published the paper A concentric circle view of health data relation facilitates understanding of sociotechnical challenge for learning health system and the role of federated data networks. May 8, 2023 Apr 17, 2023 Apr 17, 2023 On 28-29 March 2023, the second ever Data Saves Lives Ambassador Training Bootcamp wa held on the top of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Lisbon, Portugal. The purpose wa to equip regional and national level organisation with a better understanding of the opportunity and challenge presented by the use of AI in healthcare and the potential role of patient group in influencing the design and use of AI to improve the life of their members. This blog give an insight into the hot topic that were discussed a well a a summary of the key insights. Apr 17, 2023 Apr 4, 2023 Apr 4, 2023 How learning network helped people with chronic condition make sense of what wa going on in pandemic time Apr 4, 2023 Feb 14, 2023 Feb 14, 2023 Even though we accept what Lucas has, we want him to have the best life possible free from seizure and pain. Thats why sharing health data and taking part in clinical research is so important to u Feb 14, 2023 Feb 3, 2023 Feb 3, 2023 We take our mission to be the patient's voice seriously, and know that to be effective we need to be objective. Having good data to support our argument when dealing with policymakers is crucial. Feb 3, 2023 Jan 24, 2023 Jan 24, 2023 The process of recovery from severe mental ill health is by nature complicated. Like with severe physical ill health, there are often multiple and unknown causes, meaning the process of treatment is rarely straightforward. Jan 24, 2023 Nov 23, 2022 Nov 23, 2022 In October 2022, we hosted our very first Data Saves Lives Ambassador Training Bootcamp in Prague, Czech Republic. The purpose wa to equip regional and national level organisation with practical tool and tip on how to advocate for and have informed dialogue around health data sharing. This blog give an insight into the hot topic that were discussed a well a a summary of the key insights. Nov 23, 2022 Sep 15, 2022 Sep 15, 2022 In our latest blog, Clara Heathcock, Chronic Urinary Tract patient, share her personal experience of falling ill in a country where her disease wa not recognised, and the importance of health data coding in identifying condition and appropriately treating them. Sep 15, 2022 Jul 28, 2022 Jul 28, 2022 For those that were fortunate enough to be able to join u at the European Patients Forum (EPF) Congress in Brussels at the end of June, the Data Saves Lives team explored this title question with a highly engaged group of delegates. Jul 28, 2022 Jul 6, 2022 Jul 6, 2022 As experience and research continues to develop, we see that the ability to access data affect not only the patient ability to look after themselves, but also their relationship with their clinical team and with their own illness and comorbidities. A shift to being empowered begin at the point of diagnosis, with a collaborative and interactive relationship between patient and healthcare professionals, which empowers patient to take on responsibility for their condition with the appropriate clinical support. Jul 6, 2022 Apr 26, 2022 Apr 26, 2022 Looking to design a health app? Companies are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of involving patient in the development process of new applications. Read on a a member of the - Gravitate-Health UAG share experience of using digital health tools, including thought on what aspect work well and not so well from a patient perspective. Apr 26, 2022 Mar 23, 2022 Mar 23, 2022 Unfair and systematic difference in healthcare between different demographic group have led to avoidable health inequalities. The collection of health data give u the opportunity to address the gaps, but do we really have the full picture? Mar 23, 2022 Mar 10, 2022 Mar 10, 2022 Data doe save lives, but information quality is paramount to achieve successful outcome and this, in my experience, cannot be achieved if patient are not full partner and agent in their care, using the right tool to do this. Mar 10, 2022 Dec 14, 2021 Dec 14, 2021 This year wa really full with news and resource about health data sharing. The European Health Data Space became more and more focused and discussed. Additionally, patient and citizen started to become more interested in health data sharing. Nevertheless, it became clear again that there is a significant need for more information and education around the topic too. Dec 14, 2021 Oct 4, 2021 Oct 4, 2021 Often when we buy new shoes, we have to learn to walk in them a process that is long and sometimes, uncomfortable. If you hadnt walked in my shoes, you wouldnt know what they truly felt like. The reason I use this shoe analogy is because it a phrase often used by people living with chronic conditions: You cant walk in my shoes! Oct 4, 2021 Sep 20, 2021 Sep 20, 2021 I recently co-led a virtual workshop for patient and the public about future opportunity and factor that influence acceptance of the European Health Data Space (EHDS). The EHDS is a new initiative of the European Commission for a portal of health data resource across Europe. The initiative is still in an open consultation phase. The EHDS aim to accelerate research which us health data, and to enable individual to have access to their own health record across borders. Sep 20, 2021 Jun 28, 2021 Jun 28, 2021 For many people it is a confusing thought to imagine your health record being anywhere other than the country in which you reside. How did they get there, if youre not there? If you moved to another country, why wouldnt they move with you? Jun 28, 2021 Jun 22, 2021 Jun 22, 2021 For those looking for a helpful overview of whats out there, some of the term you might come across and example of how tech is being successfully used, please read on. Jun 22, 2021 May 28, 2021 May 28, 2021 Influencers are not just people talking about lifestyle product or fashion. Many people living with chronic disease report about their life with the disease and so-called health or patient influencers have been recognized a important stakeholder in healthcare for year now. May 28, 2021 May 4, 2021 May 4, 2021 The pandemic unveiled already existing weaknesses, which added up to the struggle health system found themselves with. COVID-19 will have profound implication on economic progress, trust in government and social cohesion but, above all, on patient health. May 4, 2021 Apr 9, 2021 Apr 9, 2021 The American author and columnist William Bruce Cameron once said in 1963, Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that count can be counted. This is particulary true when it come to our healthdata. Apr 9, 2021 Mar 25, 2021 Mar 25, 2021 Results from COVID-19 vaccine trial have been widely reported in the media. As a clinical trial statistician, I wa interested to find out what member of the public thought about the result that were reported, and whether the number presented in the medium on vaccine effectiveness had been fully understood. Mar 25, 2021 Mar 9, 2021 Mar 9, 2021 Throughout the world, access to the health data of past generation ha driven innovation within the healthcare industry. Just a we have benefitted from the knowledge of those who came before us, we too can assist in creating a better world for future generations, through engaging in data altruism the concept of choosing to donate our health data for wider societal benefit. Mar 9, 2021 Dec 17, 2020 Dec 17, 2020 From this work, we could conclude that technology is not considered a the main barrier to data sharing. As one of the expert in our last event concluded, technology will always find it way if a culture of trust is settled first. Indeed, TRUST is seen a the cornerstone of this equation it is, however, a complex concept and it need to be fully explored and discussed if we wish to find the right action to enhance it. Dec 17, 2020 Nov 24, 2020 Nov 24, 2020 Most people today agree that data is the new oil of the digital economy. Unlike scarce natural resources, data ha the appealing attribute of public goods.by Tino Mart Nov 24, 2020 Nov 5, 2020 Nov 5, 2020 Last week, any fear we had about our personal health data being safe were intensified when the record of ten of thousand of psychotherapy patient in Finland were stolen. As if this wasnt enough to increase our anxiety, these confidential record were used to blackmail over 40,000 patients.So, after this, should I still be sharing my data?by Nicola Davies Nov 5, 2020 Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Tue, Nov 26, 2024 12:00 PM 12:00 Wed, Nov 27, 2024 2:00 PM 14:00 More information on the agenda, our speaker and registration will come shortly! For any query and further information on sponsorship opportunities, please do not hesitate to contact u at DSL-info@eu-patient.eu Thursday, March 10, 2022 1:00 PM 2:00 PM 13:00 14:00 ON DEMAND - Monday, June 14, 2021 1:00 PM 2:00 PM 13:00 14:00 ON DEMAND - For our first DSLCoffeeMorning chat, we were joined by expert from @IMI_EHDEN @ProstatePioneer & @imi_h2o for an engaging discussion on how patient group have benefitted from leading or collaborating on #healthdata initiatives. Tuesday, March 30, 2021 1:00 PM 2:30 PM 13:00 14:30 Tune in to our DSL Webinar for an exciting discussion on Patient Reported Outcomes and their value from patient, academic and pharma perspectives. Wednesday, December 9, 2020 11:30 AM 2:45 PM 11:30 14:45 Data Saves Lives under the magnifying glass: 2020 in review and looking into 2021 Tuesday, October 20, 2020 1:00 PM 2:00 PM 13:00 14:00 Webinar exploring the role of government in tracking their population health during COVID19 and beyond and how can patient group support them? Watch now on demand! Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Resource Overview - Resources CenterCase Studies There is a wide range of way that patient data can be used to provide better care and improve health. Explore the case study to learn more. Please let u know if you have good example to share. Public Attitude Surveys It is important to understand and track public perceptions, attitudes, and feeling around us of health data and privacy regulations. Understanding how the public balance it trust in different data sharing and health issue provides researcher with valuable insight to ensure that their effort align with the people they seek to serve. Glossary of term Most of the term listed here have been defined in a glossary produced by the Connected Health Cities Programme in the UK. Some have been drawn from the IMI Code of Practice. Some term have been defined in accordance with international (ISO) standard or European Commission publications.They have been reproduced or adapted here with permission.A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Videos Patients share why they believe it is important for everyone to support the use of their data.These video interview are from some of our collaborating organisation across Europe, namely the European Institute for Innovation Through Health Data & UseMYdata Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Resource Case Summaries Big Data used for the early identification of other disease associated with cancerA novel computer programme to help doctor and scientist to better understand which other disease are likely to occur in patient with cancer. Helping the Fight Against Alzheimer's Discovering a test to detect those at risk of developing Alzheimer's Disease Early Detection of a Cancer KillerHelping identification of people at high risk of colorectal cancer from an existing blood test Using health data to explore a link between Body Mass Index and non-alcoholic fatty liver diseaseAnalysis of over 2 million anonymous patient record to establish how increasing body weight approaching obesity increase the risk of developing liver disease Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Resource Public Surveys Public opinion and behaviour around health data in the GDPR eraWith data privacy playing a larger role in both the public conversation and the legal environment with the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, it is critical to understand how popular view on health data are evolving. Research conducted by Decision Resources Group (DRG) suggests that the public, a well a doctors, are open to sharing health data if they have clarity on when and how it is collected and used. Citizens Juries in the UK explore which us of health data are acceptable to the publicConnected Health Cities (CHC), an initiative in the north of England using health data to improve care, ha held two Citizens jury to explore public opinion on data use. Citizens jury involve about 18 citizen spending three or four day together, learning about an issue from expert witness and discussing it in small groups, before writing a joint report containing answer to the purpose they have been asked to address. Europeans attitude towards the use of personal dataPeople value having the power to make decision about the use of their data. Digital service must be recognisable a being fair, and people want to have the power to decide who get to use the data collected on them, and for what purposes. These are the view held by people in four European countries, according to a survey commissioned by Sitra, a publicly funded research body in Finland Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Resource Glossary of term Most of the term listed here have been defined in a glossary produced by the in the UK. Some have been drawn from the . Some term have been defined in accordance with international (ISO) standard or European Commission publications.They have been reproduced or adapted here with permission.GlossaryAAccess Control: A mean of ensuring that the people who have been given access to all or part of a data record have been approved to do so.Aggregated data: Statistical data about multiple individual that ha been combined to show general trend or value without identifying individual within the data.Algorithm: a process or set of rule to be followed in calculation or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computerAnonymisation: The process of rendering data into a form which doe not identify individual and where identification is not considered feasible. ()Anonymous: Information that ha been modified to no longer make is reasonably possible to identify any of the individual whose data is included. Artificial Intelligence (AI): Artificial intelligence refers to system designed by human that, given a complex goal, act in the physical or digital world by perceiving their environment, interpreting the collected structured or unstructured data, reasoning on the knowledge derived from this data and deciding the best action(s) to take (according to pre-defined parameters) to achieve the given goal.Audit trail or Audit log: A record of everyone who ha looked at or changed a record, why and when they did so and what change were made.Authentication: A process of reliably identifying person or device by securely associating an identifier with a mean of verification. BBlockchain: The best known distributed ledger technology providing trust, traceability and security in system that exchange data or assets, enabling a nal and denitive record of transaction to be held in a network across a series of node and avoiding one centralised location and the need for intermediary services. CCare Pathway: A plan agreed by all discipline involved in the care of a specific group of patient (such a patient who have suffered a stroke), which outline the agreed standard for treatment, based on the best available evidence. It make clear what different task (interventions) need to be done by which professionals, when and where.Carer or Caregiver: An individual who provides unpaid care to a patient or service user, most commonly a member of their family or friend.Clinical Audit: A method for improving practice, patient care or service provided. It is used to compare current practice with a set of standard or criteria, then identify area for improvement, make change to practice and re-audit to ensure that improvement ha been achieved.Clinical Trial: An investigation in human subject intended to discover or verify the effect of one or more investigational health intervention (e.g., drugs, diagnostics, devices, therapy protocols) that generate safety and efficacy data before making the health intervention available in health care.Cloud Computing: The storing, processing and use of data on remotely located computer accessed over the internet.Confidential Data or Confidential Information: See Personally identifiable data.Confidentiality: Ensuring that information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorised individuals, or organisations.Consent: see Explicit Consent and Implied Consent.Cyber Security: The process used to safeguard and secure information asset from being stolen or attacked. DDatabase: A structured set of data held in a computer, in a form that is well suited to analysisData Breach: Any failure to meet the requirement of the General Data Protection Regulation, unlawful disclosure or misuse of personally identifiable data and an inappropriate invasion of people privacy.Data Controller: a term used to describe an individual or organisation who determines the purpose for which and the manner in which any personally identifiable data is or will be processed. It is the responsibility of the Data Controller to ensure that any processing of personally identifiable data ha an appropriate legal basis.Data Linkage: A technique that involves bringing together and analysing data from a variety of sources, typically data that relates to the same individual.Data Processor: a term used to describe any person (other than an employee of the Data Controller) who process personally identifiable data on behalf of the Data Controller. Data Controllers must choose Data Processors carefully and have in place a written contract (detailing the information governance requirements) and effective mean of monitoring, reviewing and auditing their processing.Data Security: Protecting data and information system from unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction.Data Sharing: The disclosure of data from one or more organisation to another organisation or organisations, or the sharing of data between different part of a single organisation.Data Subject: An identified or identifiable natural person, who is the subject of personal data.Deep Learning: A particularly accurate machine learning approach with le need of human guidance, referring to the fact that the neural network ha several layer between the input and the output, learning the overall input-output relation in successive steps.De-identification: A general term for any process that remove the association between a set of identifiable data and the person it relates to. It is used here specifically to mean the removal of patient identifier from data.De-personalised data: This is information that doe not identify an individual, because identifier have been removed or scrambled. However, the information is still about an individual person and so need to be protected. It might, in theory, be possible to re-identify the individual if the data wa not adequately protected, for example if it wa combined with different source of information. EEncryption: A process of maintaining data integrity and confidentiality by converting plain data into a secret code with the help of an algorithm. The corresponding reverse process is "decryption", a transformation that restores encrypted data to it original form. Only authorized user with a key can decrypt encrypted data. Encryption is regarded a an effective way to defend against the abuse of IT technologies, such a hacking, identity and personal data theft, fraud and the improper disclosure of confidential information. It ensures the protection of cybersecurity, data protection and privacy. IIdentifiable information: See Personally identifiable data.Identifier: An item of data, which by itself or in combination with other identifiers, enables an individual to be identified.Implied consent: an unwritten agreement between the patient and the health and social care professional that provide their care that allows their data to be collected, processed and shared a long a it is relevant for their care, that it is kept confidential and the patient ha not objected.Indirect care: purpose other than individual care of the patient. This includes activity that contribute to the overall provision of service to a population a a whole or a group of patient with a particular condition. It also cover health service management, preventative medicine, and medical research. Examples of such activity would be risk prediction and stratification, service evaluation, need assessment, financial audit.Information governance: this is how organisation manage the way that any data is handled within the health and social care system in England. It cover the policy and legal requirement that organisation need to meet to ensure that data is handled legally, securely, efficiently, effectively and in a manner which maintains public trust. LLinkage: The merging of information or data from two or more sources, with the object of combining fact concerning an individual or an event, which are not available in any separate record. MMachine learning: A sub-discipline of artificial intelligence, regarding the ability of a software/computer to learn from it environment or from a very large set of representative data, enabling system to adapt their behaviour to changing circumstance or to perform task for which they have not been explicitly programmed. PPatient data: Data that is collected about a patient whenever they go to a doctor or receive social care. It may include detail about the individual physical or mental health, such a height and weight or detail of any allergies, and their social care need and service received. It may also include next of kin information.Personally identifiable data: This term describes personal information about identified or identifiable individuals, which should be kept securely and only used for agreed legally approved purposes.Personal data: According to the General Data Protection Regulation, this is data that relates to a living individual who can be identified from this data, or from a combination of this data and other data which is in the possession of, or is likely to come into the possession of, the data controller.Primary care: Primary care refers to service provided by organisation such a GP practices, dental practices, community pharmacy and high street optometrists.Pseudonym: a unique identifier (sometimes created by scrambling an actual identifier), which doe not itself reveal an individual real world identity but distinguishes between different individual in a data setPseudonymous Data: The process of distinguishing individual in a data set by using a unique identifier, which doe not reveal their real world identity (see also ). ()Public interest: Something in the public interest is something that serf the interest of society a a whole. The public interest test is used to determine whether the benefit of disclosing personally identifiable patient data outweighs both the personal interest of the individual concerned and the need to protect the public trust in the confidentiality of services. SSensitive personal data: Data that identifies a living individual regarding his or her: racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious belief or other belief of a similar nature, membership of a trade union, physical or mental health or condition, sexual life, convictions, legal proceeding against the individual or allegation of offence committed by the individual.Study Participant: Any person participating in a research study, whether or not a clinical trial. It can refer to patient or healthy volunteer (it doe not include health care professionals).Synthetic data: It is information that's artificially manufactured rather than generated by real-world events. Synthetic data is created algorithmically, and it is used a a stand-in for test datasets of production or operational data, to validate mathematical model and, increasingly, to train machine learning models. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Resource Videos Patients share why they believe it is important for everyone to support the use of their data for research.These video interview are from some of our collaborating organisation across Europe.Interviews from the Featured Patients are really willing to donate data but there is always the aspect of trust I fully support better use of health data for research provided that assurance can be given that the data are well protected We need to co-operate much more in-between different part of the health care system but also between the health care system and patient Interviews from Featured Sep 2, 2019 Sep 2, 2019 Making drug improves treatment, but data should have control around it Sep 2, 2019 Sep 2, 2019 Sep 2, 2019 I think everyone should give [their data] willingly Sep 2, 2019 Sep 2, 2019 Sep 2, 2019 I want my data to be used for the benefit of research Sep 2, 2019 Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource On 5-6 December 2023, the third Data Saves Lives Ambassador Training Bootcamp wa held in Brussels, Belgium, in partnership with the The bootcamp centred on the process of establishing community-led patient registries. The ultimate aim wa to empower participant with insight into the step involved and the pivotal role of patient group in shaping registry design for community benefit. Digestive Cancers Europe (DiCE) is a non-profit, European umbrella organisation of a large group of international member representing patient with digestive cancer - colorectal, gastric, oesophageal, liver, pancreatic, and rare cancers. Health data and artificial intelligence (AI) undoubtedly hold a promising future within the realm of technology and research, with the potential to have a substantial impact on patient lives. Madeleine Brady, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patient, Engagement Consultant and formerly a comms lead for Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O), present a personal view on the impact of H2O on patients. In September 2022 Frontiers in Big Data published the paper A concentric circle view of health data relation facilitates understanding of sociotechnical challenge for learning health system and the role of federated data networks. On 28-29 March 2023, the second ever Data Saves Lives Ambassador Training Bootcamp wa held on the top of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Lisbon, Portugal. The purpose wa to equip regional and national level organisation with a better understanding of the opportunity and challenge presented by the use of AI in healthcare and the potential role of patient group in influencing the design and use of AI to improve the life of their members. This blog give an insight into the hot topic that were discussed a well a a summary of the key insights. How learning network helped people with chronic condition make sense of what wa going on in pandemic time Even though we accept what Lucas has, we want him to have the best life possible free from seizure and pain. Thats why sharing health data and taking part in clinical research is so important to u , , We take our mission to be the patient's voice seriously, and know that to be effective we need to be objective. Having good data to support our argument when dealing with policymakers is crucial. The process of recovery from severe mental ill health is by nature complicated. Like with severe physical ill health, there are often multiple and unknown causes, meaning the process of treatment is rarely straightforward. In October 2022, we hosted our very first Data Saves Lives Ambassador Training Bootcamp in Prague, Czech Republic. The purpose wa to equip regional and national level organisation with practical tool and tip on how to advocate for and have informed dialogue around health data sharing. This blog give an insight into the hot topic that were discussed a well a a summary of the key insights. In our latest blog, Clara Heathcock, Chronic Urinary Tract patient, share her personal experience of falling ill in a country where her disease wa not recognised, and the importance of health data coding in identifying condition and appropriately treating them. For those that were fortunate enough to be able to join u at the European Patients Forum (EPF) Congress in Brussels at the end of June, the Data Saves Lives team explored this title question with a highly engaged group of delegates. As experience and research continues to develop, we see that the ability to access data affect not only the patient ability to look after themselves, but also their relationship with their clinical team and with their own illness and comorbidities. A shift to being empowered begin at the point of diagnosis, with a collaborative and interactive relationship between patient and healthcare professionals, which empowers patient to take on responsibility for their condition with the appropriate clinical support. Looking to design a health app? Companies are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of involving patient in the development process of new applications. Read on a a member of the - Gravitate-Health UAG share experience of using digital health tools, including thought on what aspect work well and not so well from a patient perspective. Unfair and systematic difference in healthcare between different demographic group have led to avoidable health inequalities. The collection of health data give u the opportunity to address the gaps, but do we really have the full picture? Data doe save lives, but information quality is paramount to achieve successful outcome and this, in my experience, cannot be achieved if patient are not full partner and agent in their care, using the right tool to do this. This year wa really full with news and resource about health data sharing. The European Health Data Space became more and more focused and discussed. Additionally, patient and citizen started to become more interested in health data sharing. Nevertheless, it became clear again that there is a significant need for more information and education around the topic too. Often when we buy new shoes, we have to learn to walk in them a process that is long and sometimes, uncomfortable. If you hadnt walked in my shoes, you wouldnt know what they truly felt like. The reason I use this shoe analogy is because it a phrase often used by people living with chronic conditions: You cant walk in my shoes! I recently co-led a virtual workshop for patient and the public about future opportunity and factor that influence acceptance of the European Health Data Space (EHDS). The EHDS is a new initiative of the European Commission for a portal of health data resource across Europe. The initiative is still in an open consultation phase. The EHDS aim to accelerate research which us health data, and to enable individual to have access to their own health record across borders. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Data Saves Lives Toolkit - now in Dutch! The Data Saves Lives toolkit aim to equip patient group and health influencers with the information and material they need to have a positive dialogue with their community about health data and to potentially launch their own health data initiatives. You can download the material below. Toolkit Introduction Toolkit Part One View fullsize Toolkit Part Two The development of the toolkit wa initiated and coordinated by the . The original content of the DataSaveLives toolkit wa adjusted in collaboration with the , (Parkinson Vereniging) and (MantelzorgNL). The development of the toolkit ha been made possible by financial support of the . Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource 1 2 3 Previous Next Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource NEW BLOG NEW BLOG NEW BLOG DSL TOOLKIT 2.0 The toolkit aim to equip patient group and health influencers with the information and material they need to have a positive dialogue with their community about health data and to potentially launch their own health data initiatives. How can sharing your health data help others? In the last 5 years, more scientific data ha been generated than in the entire history of mankind Societies that can reliably and responsibly record and share the health data of it citizen across research community will advance the understanding of diseases, allow new medicine to be developed more quickly, and empower individual to benefit others with the same or other medical conditions.The responsible use of our health data will improve the wellbeing of citizens, make our healthcare system effective, data-driven and easier to use, speed up scientific research, and make healthcare service more sustainable in a Europe that will remain a global leader in medical innovation. EARLY DETECTION OF A CANCER KILLER How doe access to health data help identify people at high risk of bowel cancer? Protecting Health Data 73% of EU citizen want to share health data on the precondition that data is secure and only accessible by authorised partiessource: ec.europa.eu/health/Every patient must be able to find out how their data is used and the protection that are in place to keep it secure. The more informed people feel, the more likely they are to support the use of data sharing. So, it is of utmost importance to our initiative to keep people health data safe and secure and communicate how we do this to the public. With data privacy playing a more significant role in both the public conversation and the legal environment with the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, it is critical to understand how popular view on health data are evolving. Patient spotlight: how data can save life Data story: A friend life wa transformed by a revolutionary drug Robert Johnstone Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource NEW BLOG NEW BLOG NEW BLOG DSL TOOLKIT 2.0 The toolkit aim to equip patient group and health influencers with the information and material they need to have a positive dialogue with their community about health data and to potentially launch their own health data initiatives. How can sharing your health data help others? In the last 5 years, more scientific data ha been generated than in the entire history of mankind Societies that can reliably and responsibly record and share the health data of it citizen across research community will advance the understanding of diseases, allow new medicine to be developed more quickly, and empower individual to benefit others with the same or other medical conditions.The responsible use of our health data will improve the wellbeing of citizens, make our healthcare system effective, data-driven and easier to use, speed up scientific research, and make healthcare service more sustainable in a Europe that will remain a global leader in medical innovation. EARLY DETECTION OF A CANCER KILLER How doe access to health data help identify people at high risk of bowel cancer? Protecting Health Data 73% of EU citizen want to share health data on the precondition that data is secure and only accessible by authorised partiessource: ec.europa.eu/health/Every patient must be able to find out how their data is used and the protection that are in place to keep it secure. The more informed people feel, the more likely they are to support the use of data sharing. So, it is of utmost importance to our initiative to keep people health data safe and secure and communicate how we do this to the public. With data privacy playing a more significant role in both the public conversation and the legal environment with the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, it is critical to understand how popular view on health data are evolving. Patient spotlight: how data can save life Data story: A friend life wa transformed by a revolutionary drug Robert Johnstone Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Search on Data Saves Lives Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Disclaimer The information published in this site is intended for all stakeholder with an interest in the, so called initiative, Data Saves Lives.Any use, redistribution, or reproduction of any material herein, in part or in whole, without express written consent from Data Saves Lives is strictly prohibited. Some section of this website request specific information from the visitor. Information which may be collected from this site through questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means, enables Data Saves Lives to determine the visitor interests, with a goal to providing better service.Data Saves Lives will protect your information in consistency with applicable legislation. Data Save Lives website may provide link to web page which are not part of the www.datasaveslives.eu. These site are not under our control and we are therefore not responsible for such information or links. Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource Data Protection Transparency and Privacy Policy Data Saves Lives websiteIntroductionAll content of this website [www.datasaveslives.eu] (hereinafter the Website) is owned or controlled by the Data Saves Lives Project (hereinafter referred to a the Data Saves Lives initiative) The aim of this Website is to keep the public informed about the activity of the initiative and build awareness and understanding on the importance of shared health data.This Privacy Policy informs you about how we, or our service providers, collect, use, and disclose your information, including personal information via this Website. If you have any query about the exercising of your right under GDPR please contact Gzde Susuzlu at When doe Data Saves Lives website process personal data?1. visiting our website;2. registering to receive our newsletter, event invitation and update to our service and activities;3. registering to attend our event and the subsequent management of the event that you attend;4. sharing update about our events, including speaker details, video of presentations, photograph and interviews;5. detail about our task force and core team members;6. in handling any query that you may have about Data Saves Lives, it work or any other matter you may wish to discus with us.Data Saves Lives doe not share your personal data between our members, or any attendee of our event or visitor to our website beyond what we have specified in this notice.In each case, we retain the data for a long a we need to fulfil the above purpose of it processing and any legal obligation where we are required to handle and retain the data.Visiting our Website (Cookies)Data Saves Lives us cooky on our website to improve your experience of using our website. We may collect and process anonymous information about your visit to this website, such a some of the page you visit and some of the search you perform. Such anonymous information is used by u to help improve the content of the site and to compile aggregate statistic about individual using our site for internal, market research purposes. In doing this, we may install cooky that collect the first level domain name of the user (e.g. hotmail.com from an email address of john@hotmail.com) and the date and time of access. Cookies a used by u cannot be used to discover the identity of an individual user. A cookie is a small piece of information which is sent to your browser and stored on your computer hard drive.Cookies do not damage your computer. You can set your browser to notify you when you receive a cookie; this will enable you to decide if you want to accept it or not. We may obtain the service of outside party to assist u in collecting and processing the information described in this section and all such third party will be placed under the obligation described in the section Non-disclosure of information.On occasion, we may use Internet tag (also known a action tags, single-pixel GIFs, clear GIFs, invisible GIFs and 1-by-1 GIFs) in combination with cooky at this site and may deploy these tag through a third-party advertising partner. These tag are placed on both online advertisement that bring user to the site and on different page of the site. We use this technology to measure visitor response to our site and the effectiveness of our advertising campaign (including how many time a page is opened and which information is consulted). The third-party partner may be able to collect anonymous aggregated data about visitor to other site because of these Internet tags/cookies. Please be assured that we do not collect or seek through these tag or cooky any personally identifiable information about our visitors, such a names, addresses, email address or telephone numbers.Registering to receive newsletters, event invitation and update to our servicesWhen registering for our newsletter, event invitation and update to our service via our website or directly with our offices, we ask for your first and last names, your function in your company or institution, email address, the company or institution you belong to and the country you are based in. We ask you to select which of our core stakeholder group you belong to. We also ask you for your title, but this is optional. We do not ask for any other details, personal or otherwise.If you wish to stop receiving communication from Data Saves Lives, you are always able to unsubscribe via the available link on the email communication you will receive. In that event, we will delete you from our contact list and you will not be contacted again.Data Saves Lives doe not retain your contact detail unless you have otherwise shared your detail with u for the other purpose we outline in this notice or where a legal obligation must be met under Article 6(1)(c) of GDPR. You may always re-register to receive newsletter should you change your mind and wish to hear from u again.Registering to attend any Data Saves Lives event and subsequent management of that eventWhen registering to attend a Data Saves Lives event via our website, invitation letter or directly via email, we ask for your title, first and last names, your function in your company or institution, email address, the company or institution you belong to, your role and the country you are based in. We ask you to select which of our core stakeholder group you belong to. Furthermore, we ask you to provide u with your dietary preference and any specific need to cater for your attendance at our events. We do not ask for any other details, personal or otherwise.When registering, Data Saves Lives process your personal data to manage your attendance at our event with your explicit consent a a legal basis under Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR.Once you have registered, we do not add you to a published attendance list unless we have obtained your explicit consent to do so under Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR.Data Saves Lives retains your personal data to fulfil the purpose of managing your attendance at our event and for audit purpose after the event under Article 6(1)(c) of GDPR for legal obligation.Data Saves Lives will add you to our contact list if you are not already on it to keep you informed of newsletters, further event and update related to the initiative. You can unsubscribe from this list at any point at your convenience by contacting u a detailed in the first section.Sharing Updates about our EventsOur event are recorded either through the filming of speakers, panel and audience members, audio recording or photograph for the purpose of updating our member and the wider public about our event. Under GDPR Article 6(1)(a) we seek the explicit consent from any participant that we record in any way for this specific purpose.The consent is entirely freely given and you are free to grant it or not a you see fit without any impact on your participation in the event.You may withdraw your consent for the recording and a soon a you do, we will remove the recording from public display immediately and provided we do not have to retain it under other legal obligation, destroy it without the need for any explanation from you at all. We cannot however remove name of speaker or panellist from a past agenda or meeting report a documenting a past fact where these are provided on our website under events.Handling communication from you about Data Saves LivesWhen you contact u either from our contact u form or directly, we will process your personal data for the purpose of handling the reason for your contacting us.If your query is general or related to your right under GDPR, this will be with your explicit consent under Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR. We will retain a record of your query for one year for audit purposes. We will also add your contact detail to our contact list but only if you explicitly consent to this in accordance with Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR.What are my rights?At all times, GDPR give you the following right which we will of course honour in full compliance with it provisions: the right to request access to any of your personal data that Data Saves Lives processes; the right to data portability where you can request a digital copy of the data for your own uses; the right to the rectification (correction) of your personal data where it is incorrect; the right to request erasure of your data a outlined by GDPR; the right to restriction of processing by Data Saves Lives including where you identify and raise a problem with the data processing until the problem is resolved; the right to object at any time to processing of your personal data including that which is based on Article 6(1) (f) of GDPR where we have identified a legitimate interest.Where the processing of your personal data is based on your consent, you can withdraw your consent at any time and without any reason. Withdrawing your consent mean that Data Saves Lives will not make use of your data any longer for the purpose that you consented to. This doe not invalidate past us of your personal data for which you gave consent and your personal data will continue to be processed in the event of any legal obligation that Data Saves Lives must meet.Please note that you always have the right to lodge a complaint with the Belgian Privacy Commission at commission@privacycommission.be should you be unhappy with how we have handled your request or any of your personal data.Updates to how we process data and this noticeIf we substantially change how we process your data (for example using a new tool or service provider) we will undertake a Data Protection Impact Assessment pursuant to GDPR Article 35. This would be the case if we identify that any change require significant additional processing of your personal data and / or risk to your right and freedoms.Where we identify a clear need to update this notice we will inform you immediately.Last updated 30 June 2019 Your health data matter Health Data About Case study Resource Health Data About Case study Resource NEW BLOG NEW BLOG NEW BLOG DSL TOOLKIT 2.0 The toolkit aim to equip patient group and health influencers with the information and material they need to have a positive dialogue with their community about health data and to potentially launch their own health data initiatives. How can sharing your health data help others? In the last 5 years, more scientific data ha been generated than in the entire history of mankind Societies that can reliably and responsibly record and share the health data of it citizen across research community will advance the understanding of diseases, allow new medicine to be developed more quickly, and empower individual to benefit others with the same or other medical conditions.The responsible use of our health data will improve the wellbeing of citizens, make our healthcare system effective, data-driven and easier to use, speed up scientific research, and make healthcare service more sustainable in a Europe that will remain a global leader in medical innovation. EARLY DETECTION OF A CANCER KILLER How doe access to health data help identify people at high risk of bowel cancer? Protecting Health Data 73% of EU citizen want to share health data on the precondition that data is secure and only accessible by authorised partiessource: ec.europa.eu/health/Every patient must be able to find out how their data is used and the protection that are in place to keep it secure. The more informed people feel, the more likely they are to support the use of data sharing. So, it is of utmost importance to our initiative to keep people health data safe and secure and communicate how we do this to the public. With data privacy playing a more significant role in both the public conversation and the legal environment with the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, it is critical to understand how popular view on health data are evolving. Patient spotlight: how data can save life Data story: A friend life wa transformed by a revolutionary drug Robert Johnstone Your health data matter