The official portal for European data The portal is a central point of access to European open data from international, European Union, national, regional, local and geodata portals. It consolidates the former EU Open Data Portal and the European Data Portal. intended to: give access and foster the reuse of European open data among citizens, business and organisations; promote and support the release of more and better-quality metadata and data by the EU's institutions, agency and other bodies, and European countries; educate citizen and organisation about the opportunity that arise from the availability of open data. Select your languageCloseOfficial EU languages:SearchSearchEuropean datadata.europa.euThe official portal for European dataCloseMenuBackPrevious itemsNext item 10th anniversary of the Open Data Maturity report Celebrating a decade of open data development in Europe Discover the EU sanction tracker An interactive dashboard to monitor the latest EU sanction Listen to the Open Data Cafe podcast Explore the six-episode podcast series all about open data Start learning with the data.europa academy Your knowledge hub for open data with 11 thematic coursesPrevious slidesNext slidesPlay carouselPause carouselGo to slide 1Go to slide 2Go to slide 3Go to slide 41 of 4 Keywords Datasets optionsDatasetsCataloguesEditorial content Search 1 713 817183351 53623611 Latest content News17 April 2024 On 12 April 2024, from 10.00 to 11.30 CET, the Data.europa Academy hosted the webinar Personal data management and altruism: how and when are individual empowered to make data sharing... News15 April 2024 The European Commission's adoption of the Interoperable Europe Act mark a key development in enhancing the EU's digital public sector. This Act is set to create a network of interconnected... News12 April 2024 This week we celebrate the European Youth Week 2024 , an event organised every two year by the European Commission to celebrate and promote youth engagement and active citizenship across... Overview Get access to your open data learning hub. Explore inspiring story about open data and related topics. Stay informed about development on open data. Get insight on the evolution of European country open data maturity. Get practical help with all of the data-related aspect of your publications, from writing about data to visualising and publishing it. Learn how to use data visualisation in the best way possible for your publication and presentations. Highlighted content News10 April 2024 In today's digital landscape, maintaining privacy alongside open data effort is essential. It involves safeguarding personal information from unauthorised access or sharing, ensuring... News05 April 2024 What make 2024 a big year for the digital landscape in Europe? Maybe the AI Act , the first-ever legal framework on AI, or recent progress in the health data space come to mind. All good... Data story08 March 2024 The European data strategy set out the vision of creating a single market for data where it can flow freely within the EU and across sectors. The creation of EU-wide, common, interoperable... Events 2024-04-1515 - 19Apr2024Leipzig, Germany 2024-04-1818 - 20Apr2024Berlin, Online, Germany 2024-04-2424 - 25Apr2024Stockholm, Online This site is managed by the Publications Office of the European Union.ContactResourcesFollow u onAbout usThe Publications Office of the European Union is the official provider of publishing service to all EU institutions, body and agencies. As such, it is the central point of access to EU law, and also to publications, data, research results, procurement notice and other official information. The Publication Office therefore play a central role in informing the public about what the EU doe and mean for them, and in unlocking the power of data.Other servicesDiscover more on Contact the EUCall u Use other Write u via our Meet u at one of the Social mediaSearch for EU LegalEU institutionsEU InstitutionsSearch for Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU) Who we are Initializing search Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU) Who we are Table of content How to publish on data.europa.eu How to publish on data.europa.eu Table of content Who we are Information You can download and share the latest version of this documentation in the PDF format: is a central point of access to European open data from international, European Union, national, regional, local and geodata portals. It consolidates the former EU Open Data Portal and the European Data Portal. The portal is intended to: give access and foster the reuse of European open data among citizens, business and organisations. promote and support the release of more and better-quality metadata and data by the EUs institutions, agency and other bodies, and European countries, enhancing the transparency of European administrations. educate citizen and organisation about the opportunity that arise from the availability of open data. The two former portal EU Open Data Portal and European Data Portal, launched respectively in 2012 and 2015, were originally established on the basis of to promote accessibility to and the reuse of public sector information. The successor directive and confirmed and extended it action. The latter invite all the EU Member States to make available their public data resources, contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market and the proper development of the information society in the EU. Currently in it third iteration, the portal merges the activity of the European Data Portal (which focused exclusively on EU Member States and other European countries) and of the EU Open Data Portal (which served data from the EU institutions, agencies, and bodies) into one. It is funded by the EU and managed operationally by the in cooperation with the of the , responsible for EU open data policy. Our mission, vision and value The mission, vision and value of data.europa.eu are part of those from the Publications Office of the European Union (OP) with respect to open data. OP mission. The Publications Office of the European Union is the official provider of publishing service to all EU institutions, bodies, and agencies. As such, it is a central point of access to EU law, publications, open data, research results, procurement notice and other official information. Its mission is to support EU policy and ensure that this broad range of information is available to the public a accessible and reusable data to facilitate transparency, economic activity, and the diffusion of knowledge. OP vision. A well-informed EU, empowered by timely and effective access to trustworthy information and knowledge and benefiting from all the opportunity this brings to society and the economy. OP values. Transparency -- we facilitate transparency throughout the policy cycle of the EU institution to enhance evidence-based decision-making, accountability, civic participation, and democracy. Trustworthiness -- we strive to ensure that the content we provide is accurate and reliable so that citizen trust the EU a a provider of information. Accessibility -- we believe access to information is a human right that all citizen should enjoy regardless of language, culture, disability, social status, location, technology, or the way they understand information. Service orientation -- we are committed to continuously improving our service to both our institutional stakeholder and EU citizen because we want to contribute to the European project in the best possible way. Translated metadata catalogue The portal is a metadata catalogue. To foster the comparability of data published across borders, it present metadata reference using the application profile for data portal in Europe (), using Resource Description Framework (RDF) technology. It provides translation of metadata description in all 24 official EU using machine-translation technology (). In some situations, metadata machine-based translation might not be a efficient a human translation. From raw data to service Our service are focused around three main spheres: Data provider -- any entity that give access and distributes data to the public. To ensure the reliability of the published resource in the portal, the data provider of the portal are official representative from supranational, national and local public administration. Data user -- any person or entity who access and consumes data for any purpose. These include a wide range of data user who visit the portal for different purposes: non-governmental organisations, international organisations, private sector, academia, students, etc. Data literacy -- the ability to read, understand, create, and communicate data a information. Much like literacy a a general concept, data literacy focus on the competency involved in working with data. The data provider (EU institutions, agency and EU bodies, Member States, and other European countries) are autonomous in publishing their metadata (which give you access to their data) in data.europa.eu. The portal also publishes datasets of organisation beyond the EU. The portal is being updated whenever new datasets and content are available. In addition to the vast collection of public datasets, most of them published in open formats, we offer additional content and related services: training material on open data in the study such a or ; and a assessing metadata quality against various findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR) indicator a the possibility of storing your data under certain condition (please ) the social medium channel (, , , ) a with the most relevant event taking place a monthly New feature for registered user will be added soon to data.europa.eu. The whole source code of the portal is available at for free reuse. How to contribute to the portal: - Give u , for example, suggest new functionality you would like to see on the portal - - in which we can promote the use of data Open data in the European Union Several policy and legal development on EU open data have taken place since 2003. 2003 -- on the re-use of the public sector information (PSI) directive. 2011 -- on the reuse of Commission documents, established the basis for the former EU Open Data Portal, operated by the (2012--2021). 2012 -- launch of the EU Open Data Portal, central point of access to open data from EU institutions, agencies, and bodies. 2013 -- amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the re-use of public sector information. 2015 -- launch of the European Data Portal publishing data from national, regional, and local open data portals. 2019 -- on open data and the re-use of public sector information recasts Directives (PSI directive) and setting up a legal framework of minimum requirement for Member States regarding the accessibility of public data resources. 2020 -- (COM/2020/66) aiming at creating a single market for data for the benefit of businesses, researchers, and public administration to ensure Europes global competitiveness. 2021 -- consolidates the former European Data Portal (data from the EU Member States and other European countries) and the former EU Open Data Portal (data from the EU institutions, agencies, and bodies) into the official portal for European data. 2022 -- the set a framework for fostering voluntary data sharing beyond open data 2023 -- Entry into force of a , those that have a high potential for economic and societal impact European open data space The European open data space is an essential element of the single market for data -- an EU-wide interoperable data space that will enable the development of new product and service based on public data and industrial and scientific applications. It focus on the implementation of EU open data and reuse policy under the legal act adopted by the EU institutions. The Publications Office of the EU work on all four European open data space building block and their objectives: - providing a comprehensive catalogue of open data and citizen-centric reuse services; - improving the interlinking and interoperability of open data with other source of public-sector information, such a legislation, publication and digital content; - fostering the use of data from EU content through the organisation of competition and data visualisation events; - contributing to the implementation of data governance and policy across the EU institutions. 2023 European Commission Made with Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU) Publications and education Initializing search Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU) How to publish on data.europa.eu How to publish on data.europa.eu Publications and education Table of content Table of content Publications and education Several publications, ranging from the yearly report to specific and are available through data.europa.eu. The portal offer social medium coverage on open data topics, with the purpose of educating and informing citizen about the opportunity that using and reusing public data resource can bring. It also host the and publishes a . The section offer a catalogue that includes hundred of use case from both publisher and people who reuse open data. The portal is linked to other activity that demonstrate the potential of open data, such a the (an annual open data competition), the (a worldwide conference about open data and data visualisation) and different online seminar series (EU DataViz webinars, EU Open Data Explained webinars and data.europa academy webinars). The portal also offer documentation on general recommendation for topic like data quality and data citation. Finally, the portal research and document the impact of open data in report such a the 2020 report on . The study forecast the open data market size and employment growth for 2025. The impact is exemplified by efficiency gain and cost saving due to open data. Open data maturity The study on open data maturity serf a benchmark to gain insight into the development of European country in the field of open data. This annual assessment, started in 2015, present the overview to better understand the country level of maturity on open data. The study capture their progress over time and area of improvement and benchmark them against other countries. The report ass the maturity against four dimensions: Policy Portal Impact Quality It also provides an overview of best practice implemented across Europe and a set of recommendation tailored to the level of maturity and characteristic of each group. Every year, the data is collected through a questionnaire sent to national open data representative working in collaboration with the European Commission and the Public Sector Information Expert Group. Data.europa academy The is your knowledge hub on data. It help you to become more knowledgeable about open data and become more data literate, with different course hosting e-learnings, reports, webinars and related material. You will find an extensive learning offer depending on your profile (academia, civil servant, data provider, developer, journalist, NGO, private sector) or your level of expertise on data. They are also grouped per theme (business, communication, impact, legal, policy, portal, and quality). Whether you are an expert or just getting started, you will find the information you need to upskill your data learnings! News and data story Under news, you can find short article about the latest activities, events, projects, initiatives, studies, trend and use case related directly or indirectly to open data in Europe and beyond. If you would like your event, project, or initiative to be featured in our news section, . Data story Data story are a set of article on a variety of topic related to the European Commissions priorities, showcasing relevant open data through data visualisations. The section also includes interviews, highlighting example of good practice and innovative technique related to open data across the world. Studies The portal commits to open data research and learning a key milestone to keep updating in this constantly changing data ecosystem. This section provides a full collection of the research developed on several topics. Calendar The event calendar feature virtual and in-person event related directly and indirectly to open data in Europe and beyond. If you would like your event to be featured in this section of the portal, . EU Open Data Days The in 2021, wa the first-ever event of it kind and took place from 23 to 25 November 2021. It comprised , an international conference on open data and data visualisation, followed by the final of , the annual open data competition. The EU Open Data Days were designed to be relevant to all open data stakeholder and data users, with a special emphasis on the need of the EUs public sector. The event attracted well over 2 000 registration from data enthusiasts, data visualisation expert and solution-seekers. On the stage, different sector of the society were represented, with more than 70 speaker coming from all around the world to bring their expertise for public administrations. The EU Open Data Days were organised by the Publications Office of the EU, with the active support of over 60 partners, representing the data provider from EU institution and agencies, European national open data portal and national statistical offices, the key digital player in Luxembourg. You can access the online. EU Datathon EU Datathon is an annual open data competition organised by the Publications Office of the EU since 2017. The competition are organised to create new value for citizen through innovation and promote the use of open data available on . EU Datathons gather team of people from all over Europe to stimulate innovation, creating a bridge between citizen and the EUs administration. As a result, new application are developed to improve existing service or create completely new ones. The competition have also demonstrated that potential user do need these initiative for visibility purpose before potential business partners. Open data demonstrated in every edition how powerful it could be, in every sector of society. It showed u how it could help in the creation of start-ups, innovative product and services; it promotes transparency in the public sector, address current societal challenges, boost economic growth and accelerates scientific progress. Every EU Datathon competition showed innovation when team tackled different challenges, such a helping to achieve the digital single market (e.g. and ), making legislation more interoperable (e.g. and ), offering innovative technology relating to medicine (e.g. and ) or tackling climate change () through a platform which optimises irrigation to reduce water waste (e.g. ). These examples, among others, uncover how accessible and reusable data can help to build a better future. EU Datathons are organised in collaboration with partner in EU institution and Member States to address domain of primary importance for citizens, the public sector and businesses: legislation, medications, food safety and public procurement, among others. This interinstitutional collaboration highlight the common goal to be closer to citizen and support innovative start-ups. Additionally, by facilitating cooperation between public entity and the private sector, EU Datathons generate innovative idea for open government, offering a platform for all side to exchange information and learn. Moreover, it is a new, more direct way of interaction between citizens, innovative youth and the EU administration and it can generate a positive atmosphere around the Commission and the EU institution in general. Newsletter The is sent to subscriber monthly. It provides an overview of the recent and upcoming event and activity of the portal, along with the most important news, events, and development in the open data domain in Europe. Subscribe to r. To unsubscribe, click on the Unsubscribe from this newsletter link at the bottom of the newsletter email. 2023 European Commission Made with