Digital Health Europe (DHE) wa an Horizon2020 project that ended in September 2021. One of their result wa the DHE catlaogue of digital solutions. --> find initiative per country/stakeholder/policy priotities The catalogue contains up-to-date 65 mature, highly impactful and replicable solution which are the result of EU-funded project and initiative that address challenge related to the Digital Transformation of Health and Care policy priorities. The solution have high potential for scaling up and replicability across Europe. Menu DigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solution supporting the digital transformation of health and care No result back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu DigitalHealthEuropeSupport to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single MarketDigital Solutions for Health and Care Management in Times of CoronavirusA catalogue of mature telehealth solution which enable remote/tele-monitoring, ePrescribing and other remotely managed service during the COVID-19 pandemic. Better Implementation of Data Infrastructures and Secondary Uses of Health DataA DigitalHealthEurope White Paper explores the evolving European and national landscape of health data-sharing for care and for researchDigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solution supporting the digital transformation of health and careBrowse the database of 65 mature digital solution resulting from EU-funded project and initiative that address challenge related to key policy priorities.Scaling up of Digitally-enabled Health and Care Solutions via TwinningsFind out more about the ongoing DigitalHealthEurope Twinnings awarded funding a a result of the DHE Calls for Twinnings. Previous slide Next slide DigitalHealthEurope recommendation on the European Health Data Space Supporting responsible health data sharing and use through governance, policy and practiceAfter almost two year of intense consultation with nearly 140 stakeholder and expert from diverse areas, DigitalHealthEurope ha developed proposal for regulatory action, policy and strategy, a well a further action of support to enable responsible health data sharing and use. These recommendation are directed towards the envisioned European Health Data Space (EHDS), which the European Commission will define in a specific legal framework until the end of 2021. Aim of the EHDS is to facilitate the sharing and us of Real World Health Data within and especially beyond healthcare.In this context, DigitalHealthEurope present 32 actionable recommendation addressing three significant transition challenge for the EHDS:From privacy protection to citizen protection.From citizen a data subject to citizen a key change agent in the health data ecosystem.From policy and regulatory framework to engagement, adoption and implementation. 49 Empowering citizen and building a healthier society through digital health DigitalHealthEurope will providecomprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The project approach involves a number of action that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priority for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), a outlined in the European Commissions 2018on the topic. The priority concern: citizen secure access to and sharing of health data across border better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offer two form of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020. Support to large scale deployment of digital solution for person-centred integrated care DigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tool will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instrument and financing sources. The selected initiative will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instrument such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisation will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklist and documented successful approaches. These result will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lesson learned. Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder community DigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These community directly address the three priorities.Each of the community will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated expert and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcome such a white papers, guideline and policy recommendations. DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The result will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended actions. Latest News There are many digitally enabled health and care solution and practice developed a part of Europe research & innovation projects, national funding programmes, private undertakings, competitions, etc., but it is oftentimes difficult to get Dementia and moderate cognitive impairment are some of the most common challenge faced by older citizens. Kwido Mementia ha become a result of the twinning cooperation between Ideable Solutions, Spain (twinning originator) and the Video explaining the adoption of the Social-Health Folder twinning aimed at digitalisation of healthcare administration and management. During the course of it action, the Digital Health Europe (DHE) project ha produced numerous valuable outputs, including white paper and recommendations, the DHE forum, collection of useful resource for people working in the Tweets back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu View the Summit Recordings here! Summary Figures that speak for themselves: 3 days, 12 sessions, 400 participants, 50 speaker The Digital Health Europe Summit 2021 brought together EU policymakers, funders, digital health expert and other stakeholder for inspiring and forward-looking debates. Topics ranged from real-life transformation through digital health(Day 1),viaempowering citizens(Day 2)toscaling up innovation through health data(Day 3). Digital transformation is undoubtedly ongoing in the healthcare sector. However, it still lack the right type of support, which can jeopardise the success of this process including the future European Health Data Space. The DHE Summit aimed to scrutinise the driver and barrier of digital transformation through different lenses. The DHE Summit wa a unique event which offered a very complex, multifaceted and diverse approach to the fact and challenge of digital transformation. Sessions zoomed in on infrastructure need such a cloud computing, data connectivity and interoperability across borders. Experts discussed the human factor of the process such a capacity building or citizen empowerment. A panel wa dedicated to expected promising result and currently fatal disease which medicine will be able to soon overcome thanks to health data-based research and innovation. Last but not least of all, a representative of the European Commission shared with the audience what the future perspective are and how all the effort from different stakeholder will come into place to implement a common European vision on health data. is a projectwhichhas received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.Itprovidescomprehensive supportto the European Commission and Member States toadvance the Digital Single Market priority for the digital transformation of health and care, a outlined in the. Agenda Tuesday, 28 Sept., 9:00 - 12:00:Real-life transformation through digital health 9:00 10:00 CEST 1: Introduction to the topicMarco Marsella (DG CNECT)Policy context Dr. Birgit Morlion (DG CNECT)Keynote speech Esko Aho (former Prime Minister of Finland)Introduction to DigitalHealthEurope Dr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)10:00 11:00 CEST 2: Digital transformation through replication of European best practice in health and careStrahil Birov (empirica)Jon Switters (FUNKA)Dr. Oscar Zanutto (Twinning SoCaTel)Helena Biancuzzi (Twinning OncologyInMotion)Mathieu Thbaud (Twinning REHABLAB4ALL) Benjamin Cid-Bouri (Twinning CISMED)Campbell MacLeod and Lasse Kaalby Mller (Twinning CCEResearchInfrastructure)Jlia Altarriba and Dr. Rosana Magalhes (Twinning AI4MultimorbidityConditions) DHE ha been supporting healthcare provider and the wider digital health and care ecosystem in scaling up best practice through collaboration and partnership building. Learn about the different support service DHE offers, a well a some of the success achieved thanks to DHEs twinnings small knowledge exchange project which have resulted in adoption of innovation solution across Europe. 11:00 11:15 CEST Coffee Break11:15 11:55 CEST 3: Going digital: Sustainable approach to scaling up, knowledge sharing and capacity buildingDonna Henderson (European Health Telematics Association)Dr. Maddalena Illario (European Reference Site Collaborative Network)Dr. Niamh Lennox-Chhugani (International Foundation for Integrated Care)Dr. Gian Matteo Apuzzo (Central European Initiative) Building on the learning and the outcome of the previous session, speaker will take stock of horizontal and vertical challenge of scaling-up in a sustainable way. As a response, those skill and capacity will be elaborated on which can help to solve and overcome these challenges. DHE ha developed a capacity building framework that can support a wide range of digital health stakeholder to build their capacity in a hands-on manner. Discussion between DHE consortium partner network will be triggered on how they deal with cross-border skill development, particularly in Central Europe. 11:55 12:00 CEST 4: Day 1 ClosingDr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)Moderator: Dr. Jos Martinez Usero (FUNKA) Wednesday, 29 Sept., 14:00 - 16:30:Empowering citizen through health data 14:00 14:40 CEST 1: Patient-centred health and careDiane Whitehouse (European Health Telematics Association)Nicola Bedlington (European Patients Forum)Lyudmil Ninov (European Patients Forum)Ivett Jakab (European Patients Forum Youth Group)David Magboul (LabToMarket) Digitalisation is undoubtedly changing health and care today. Digital health can be fundamental to enhance integration between health and social care and to better manage healthcare system and services. The road to a full uptake of digital, however, is still very fragmented. If it is true that the COVID-19 crisis ha greatly accelerated this process, it ha also put under the spotlight once again how access to digital health is very much unequal, organised in different way across Europe. Furthermore, digital health is not yet fully enabling nor based on collaboration between patient and healthcare professional nor on co-design. 14:40 15:10 CEST 2: Citizens health data sharingCarina Dantas (European Connected Health Alliance)Prof. Mark Lawler (European Cancer Organisation / Queens University Belfast)Nilsy Desaint (MSD)Danny van Roijen (European Coordination Committee of the Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT Industry)Gzde Susuzlu Briggs (Data Saves Lives / European Patients Forum) Thousands of Europeans have begun to share health data purposefully in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. The debate around citizen-controlled health data sharing especially regarding adequate governance model has, however, been ongoing for much longer. This session explores citizens-centred data sharing. It start with a COVID-19 use case, and complement it with the result from a large-scale survey on citizen attitude towards health data sharing. Finally, we will consider citizen and patient perspective on the topic. 15:10 15:20 CEST Coffee break15:20 15:50 CEST 3: Accelerating health data connectivityDr. Henrique Martins (DigitalHealthEurope)Dr. Rainer Thiel (empirica)Dr. Dipak Kalra (European Institute for Innovation through Health Data / European Institute for Health Records)Sara Riggare (Uppsala University) Lack of health data connectivity is still a problem across the EU. Heterogenous level of connectiveness between health organisation and between health organisation and citizens/patients in Member States is still prevalent. Citizens are key actor to accelerate health data connectivity under two conditions. First, if tool are available to empower them and second, if the right climate of health data activism is created in society which can nurture citizen demand for health data interoperability. 15:50 16:20 CEST 4: Data-driven health and care: Is the future federated?Dr. Oliver Zobell (Research Centre Jlich)Prof. Dr. Jan Baumbach (University of Hamburg)Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan (University of Cologne)Prof. Dr. Andr Dekker (Maastricht University) In this session, expert will discus solution for on-demand access to federated datasets and to cloud computing resources, and how these have the potential to accelerate the digital transformation of health and care. 16:20-16:30 CEST 5: Closing Day 2Dr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)Moderator: Carola Schulz (empirica) Thursday, 30 Sept., 14:00 - 16:30: Scaling up innovation through health data 14:00 14:20 CEST 1: Keynote speechUpdate on European Health Data Space Ioana-Maria Gligor (DG SANTE)14:20 15:15 CEST 2: Better data to promote research, disease prevention and personalised health and careDr. Dipak Kalra (European Institute for Innovation through Health Data / European Institute for Health Records)Birgit Bauer (Digital Health & Social Media Entrepreneur) Dr. Emmanuel Bacry (Health Data Hub)Tomaz Gornik (Better)Jesper Kjr (Danish Medicines Agency)Prof. Dr. Denis Horgan (European Alliance for Personalised Medicine) This session will present the drivers, approach and success factor for scaling up the availability and us of health data to accelerate research and the delivery of personalised medicine. The DHE finding from several multi-stakeholder consultation and the assessment of several digital health and eResearch programme will be summarised. Europes scalability and acceptability challenge will be presented and discussed by a panel of experts. 15:15 15:25 CEST Coffee break15:25 16:10 CEST 3: Ensuring innovation through health data where to next?Dr. Zoi Kolitsi (DHE)Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers (European University Cyprus / Oxford University)Nick Schneider (German Federal Ministry of Health)Steven Vermeulen (EBRAINS)Dr. Ilias Iakovidis (DG CNECT)Dr. Tapani Piha (SITRA) Since the first EC communication on the EDS, much ha come into shape and more is to yet be defined for the health specific EHDS. The DHE Recommendations reflect a high degree of congruence on the important issue and challenges, albeit some discrepancy across the multiple stakeholder communities. What is next? This session aim to peek into what might lie ahead through the lens of several perspectives, brought in by thought- leader across a broad array of priority challenges. 16:10 16:30 CEST 4: Whats next for Digital Health in EuropeMarco Marsella (DG CNECT) Dr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)Moderator: Dr. Petra Wilson Speakers Esko Aho Chairman of the Board, Former Prime Minister Cinia Oy / Adven Group Esko Aho is Chairman of the Board of Cinia Oy and Adven Group and on the Supervisory Board of Sberbank. Esko Aho is Chairman of the Board of Cinia Oy and Adven Group and on the Supervisory Board of Sberbank. He is a member of Europe, Middle East and Africa Advisory Council at JP Morgan. Mr. Aho wa a Member of the Finnish Parliament 1983 2003 and Prime Minister 1991 1995. Under his leadership, Finland joined the European Union. After his political career, Mr. Aho wa a President of the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra and after that Executive Vice President at Nokia Corporation. He wa an Executive Chairman of the Board of East Office of Finnish Industries 2013 2019. At present he is Senior Advisor at East Office. Furthermore he served a a member of the Executive Board at the International Chamber of Commerce 2013 2019. He acted a Chairman of the Board at ICC Executive Board Policy and Commissions Committee for four years. He is an invited member of Club de Madrid, an independent organization of former head of state and government dedicated to strengthening democracy. Ioana-Maria Gligor Head of Unit Digital Health and European Reference Networks, DG SANTE Ioana Gligor is Head of Unit in DG SANTE, responsible for Digital Health and European Reference Networks. Ioana Gligor is Head of Unit in DG SANTE, responsible for Digital Health and European Reference Networks. Ioana worked previously on health issue in DG Employment, with a focus on the European Semester and European Social Fund. Before joining DG SANTE, she worked in the Secretariat General of the European Commission, in DG Employment and Social Affairs and she started her career in European Institutions in the Cabinet of Commissioner Orban. Before joining the EU institutions, Ioana worked in the Romanian Ministry of European Integration and wa spokesperson for the Chief Negotiator with the EU. She studied political science and EU affairs, with a specialisation at the College of Europe in the law and economics of internal market. She ha a PhD in international relations. Marco Marsella Head of Unit eHealth, Well-being, and Ageing DG CNECT Marco Marsella is Head of the eHealth, Well-being, and Ageing Unit in the Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology. Marco Marsella is Head of the eHealth, Well-being, and Ageing Unit in the Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) of the European Commission. From 2016 to June 2018, Marco Marsella wa leading the Unit responsible for the Web Accessibility Directive, Safer Internet and Language Technologies. He ha worked on policy development, innovation and research implementation in the area of digital content, technology for learning, e-inclusion and assistive technologies. Dr. ir. Birgit Morlion Programme and Policy Officer European Commission DG CNECT Dr. ir. Birgit Morlion work on the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market. Birgit Morlion is an engineer (PhD) with a mission to make digital health come true. In May 2017 she joined the eHealth, well-being and ageing unit of the European commission (DG Connect) where she work on the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market, more specifically with a focus on mobile health (mHealth), integrated care and active and healthy ageing. Before joining the Commission she wa actively involved in eHealth research and facilitating the adoption of digital innovation in health and care in Belgium. She wa part of the start-up team of the Flemish digital research and innovation institute iMinds; helping to bridge the gap between research and exploitation of results. She also occupied strategic advisory role for the Flemish and the Belgian Ministers of health in the domain of medical data-exchange and patient access to his electronic medical records. Dr. Ilias Iakovidis Adviser on Green Digital Transformation DG CNECT Ilias Iakovidis, PhD, is an Adviser on Green Digital Transformation at the European Commission, DG CONNECT. Ilias coordinate the EU wide initiative to improve the energy and material efficiency of ICT. He is focused on maximising the benefit of green digital transformation for environment, society and economy. With work with European Green Digital Coalition to develop science-based method to estimate the net impact of digital solution on environment & climate. Ilias is working also on digitalisation for circular economy (e.g. digital product passport). Before 2017, Ilias worked on the EU eHealth and ICT for Ageing well agenda for over 20 years. Areas he pioneered include Virtual Physiological Human; Personal Health Systems and Electronic Health Records. Dr. Tapani Piha Senior Adviser SITRA Tapani Piha ha worked at the Ministry of Health and of Foreign Affairs in Finland a well a at the WHO Regional Office for Europe. Tapani Piha ha worked at the Ministry of Health and of Foreign Affairs in Finland a well a at the WHO Regional Office for Europe. He worked in the European Commission from 2001 to 2018. His main assignment were heading the unit for digital transformation in healthcare and on health law. Back in Finland since 2019, he is advising the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Innovation Fund Sitra on digital health, use of health data and EU health policies. He work also a Special Adviser on digital health and healthcare in the Fipra International Network. Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers Research Associate, University of Oxford / Oxford Internet Institute European University Cyprus Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers is research associate at the University of Oxford (Oxford Internet Institute) and professor at European University Cyprus. Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers is research associate at the University of Oxford (Oxford Internet Institute) and professor at European University Cyprus. He is also a visiting professor at Rijeka University, senior advisor to EPC Brussels, board member of Digital Enlightenment Forum and supervisory board member of the Estonian eGovernance Academy. He ha been Director at the European Commission dealing with EU legislation and funding for cybersecurity, e-ID, digital privacy, digital health, smart cities, e-government. He wa also cabinet member of European Commissioner Liikanen and until recently advisor to the European Commission, DG SANTE on digital health. He is CEO of iivii BV. Dr. Veli Stroetmann Head of Digital Health Research and Policy & Director empirica Dr. Veli Stroetmann is Director of empirica Communication and Technology Research and coordinator of DigitalHealthEurope. Dr. Veli Stroetmann, MD, PhD, is Director of empirica Communication and Technology Research and Head of Digital Health Research and Policy. She obtained an MD degree from the Academy for Medical Sciences in Sofia and a PhD in Medical Informatics. Over the last 25 years, she ha been coordinator and principal investigator for European Union funded study and project on digital health policy and strategies, market research, business modelling, impact and regulatory assessment, socio-economic impact assessment and evaluation. Currently she is coordinating a large EU Support Action DigitalHealthEurope: Support to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market. She led an EC study to support the scaling up of innovation in active and healthy ageing through twinning actions. She is also leading work to advance the European Blueprint for Digital Transformation of Health and Care, a key policy activity within the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing. Dr. Stroetmann is editor and co-author of numerous European policy and research roadmaps and article on digital health strategy of EU Member States, semantic interoperability, eHealth innovation and scaling up personalised health services, learning health system, integrated care, digital patient research, in-silico medicine. She is an Executive Board member of the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD). Jlia Altarriba COO HumanITcare Jlia Altarriba is the COO of HumanITcare and she is responsible for leading multiple projects. Jlia Altarriba is the COO of HumanITcare and she is responsible for leading multiple projects, a well a organizing the different operation of the company. Her background includes a BA in Physics, an MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation in Biomedical Engineering and a specialization course on Project Management. She ha vast experience in health since she ha been part of the radiology unit of the Hospital Clnic de Barcelona a a physicist. Dr. Gian Matteo Apuzzo Project Manager Central European Initiative Dr. Gian Matteo Apuzzo is an urban sociologist and EU policy expert, with a PhD in Social Sciences on urban exclusion and social foresight. Urban sociologist and EU policy expert, with a PhD in Social Sciences on urban exclusion and social foresight, he ha a long-time experience a a consultant, teacher, and researcher matured in different country and contexts. Since 2009 he ha been working a senior researcher and project manager for the Friuli Venezia Giulia regional health system organisation on the topic of digital health, active and healthy ageing, integrated care, social innovation. Currently working at the Central European Initiative (CEI) a senior expert on health/social policies, he is the focal point of a CEI-WHO Task Force in response to COVID-19. Dr. Emmanuel Bacry Scientific Director Health Data Hub Emmanuel Bacry currently serf a the Scientific Director of the French Health Data Hub. Emmanuel Bacry currently serf a the Scientific Director of the French Health Data Hub. In parallel, he is a Senior Researcher at CNRS (French National Centre for Scientific Research) at Paris Dauphine University. For over 4 years, he served a a Mathematics Professor a well a the head of the Big Data & Data Science Initiative at Ecole Polytechnique. National and international AI expert and general chair of various summer school on AI and data science, Emmanuel Bacry is also a member of several French and international scientific board and committees. Emmanuel studied Mathematics at ENS (cole normale suprieure de Paris) where he graduated in 1992. He additionally obtained his Accreditation to Supervise Research (Habilitation diriger de recherches) in 1996. Birgit Bauer Patient Expert, Digital Health & Social Media Entrepreneur Manufaktur fr Antworten Birigt Bauer, Patient Expert, Digital Health & Social Media Entrepreneur, Manufaktur fr Antworten Prof. Dr. Jan Baumbach Chair of Computational Systems Biology University of Hamburg Since January 2021, Jan Baumbach is the chair of Computational Systems Biology (Cosy.Bio) at the University of Hamburg. Jan Baumbach studied computer science at Bielefeld University in Germany. In October 2012, he moved to the University of Southern Denmark a head of the Computational BioMedicine group. His research concentrated on system and network biomedicine. He wa study programme coordinator of the Computational BioMedicine program from 2015 to 2017. In January 2018 he moved to the Technical University of Munich a chair of the Experimental Bioinformatics (ExBio), where he developed computational method for system medicine and novel federated AI approach ensuring privacy by design. In January 2021, the lab relocated to the University of Hamburg where Jan Baumbach became chair of Computational Systems Biology (Cosy.Bio). Nicola Bedlington Special Advisor European Patients Forum Nicola Bedlington is the special advisor to the European Patients Forum, and wa it first Executive Director and Secretary from 2006 to 2019. Nicola Bedlington is the special advisor to the European Patients Forum, and wa it first Executive Director and Secretary General from 2006 to 2019. Nicola wa also the first Director of the European Disability Forum, (1996 to 1999). Prior to this, she headed the NGO unit within HELIOS, a European Commission Action Programme promoting equal opportunity for disabled people (1991-1996). From 2004 to 2006, she led the Environment and Schools Initiatives Secretariat (ENSI), an international government-based network set up by OECD focussing on Education for Sustainable Development. Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan Full Professor, Institute for Medical Informatics University of Cologne Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan is the director of the Medical Informatics Institute at the Medical Faculty of the University of Cologne. Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan is the director of the Medical Informatics Institute at the Medical Faculty of the University of Cologne and lead a medical data integration center. Beyans research focus on health data reusability, semantic interoperability, and data science with the goal of continuously improving health care through innovation and creating new knowledge. She focus on the potential of data-driven medicine through the development of artificial intelligence and machine learning, without losing sight of fairness, equity, privacy, and confidentiality of individual a well a social group and communities. Helena Biancuzzi Independent Researcher Ipazia Observatory on Gender Research / OncologyInMotion Twinning Helena Biancuzzi, JD., is completing her Masters Degree in business economics. In 2018-19, she wa a research fellow at the Department of Economics and Statistics of the University of Udine, Italy. She is a Member of Ipazia, the Observatory on Gender Research. In 2019 and 2020, she wa the winner of the European grant DigitaHealthEurope in the context of Digital Single Market strategy. She authored several paper in the field of Public Management, particularly in the healthcare sector, co-production processes, and knowledge translation. Strahil Birov Research Consultant empirica Strahil Birov is the project manager of DigitalHealthEurope (DHE), with a special focus on facilitating the DHE twinning activities. Strahil Birov is the project manager of DigitalHealthEurope (DHE), with a special focus on facilitating the DHE twinning activity among European healthcare providers, aimed a transferring knowledge and lesson learnt from one country to another. At empirica, Strahil ha been involved in a wide variety of digital health project and studies. His key work domain at empirica include policy development, public procurement of innovation (PCP, PPI) development of innovative ICT solution (technical specifications, piloting and testing), impact assessment/cost-benefit analysis, market research, business modelling, process model development, online survey design and administration. Benjamin Cid-Bouri International Affairs Directorate General Pharmaceutical Council of Spain Benjamin Cid-Bouri is pharmacist in the International Affairs Directorate of the General Pharmaceutical Council of Spain. Benjamin Cid-Bouri is pharmacist in the International Affairs Directorate of the General Pharmaceutical Council of Spain. Having joined the organisation in 2018, he is part of the DHE Twinning on CISMED, the information system that pharmacy have in Spain for reporting automatically and in real time the problem of short supply of medicines. Previously, he worked for the Councils Medicines Information Centre where he wa the primary source of information about the situation of medicine and medical devices. Benjamin wa trained a a pharmacist at Universidad Complutense de Madrid and he hold a Master degree in market access. Carina Dantas International Projects Manager ECHAlliance Carina Dantas is CEO of SHINE 2Europe, Senior Project Manager for ECHAlliance. Carina Dantas is CEO of SHINE 2Europe, Senior Project Manager for ECHAlliance, Management member of The Digital Health Society and member of the Standing Committee on Policy and Advocacy of the International Health Literacy Association. She is Chair of the COST Action NET4Age-Friendly, Coordinator of the Stakeholders Network on SHAFE and Vice-President of the European Covenant on Demographic Change. Carina is evaluator/reviewer for EC, Eureka, AAL, EIT Digital; member of the Expert Team developing the EU Ethics framework for the ICT Profession (CEN/CENELEC); Team Leader of expert group designing the AAL Reference Guidelines for Ethics, Data Privacy and Security. Prof. Dr. Andre Dekker Full Professor Clinical Data Science Maastricht University, Maastricht UMC+, Maastro Clinic Andre Dekker, PhD (1974) is a medical physicist and professor of Clinical Data Science at Maastricht UMC+ and Maastro Clinic in The Netherlands. Andre Dekker, PhD (1974) is a medical physicist and professor of Clinical Data Science at Maastricht UMC+ and Maastro Clinic in The Netherlands. His Clinical Data Science research group (40+ staff) focus on 1) federated FAIR data infrastructures, 2) AI for health outcome prediction model and 3) applying AI to improve life of patient and citizens. Prof. Dekker ha authored over 170 publications, mentored more than 30 PhD student and hold multiple award and patent on the topic of federated data and AI. He ha held visiting scientist appointment at university and company in the UK, Australia, Italy, USA and Canada. Nilsy Desaint Director Public Policy Europe MSD Nilsy Desaint joined the global biopharmaceutical company MSD in early 2015 a Associate Director, Public Policy in Belgium. Nilsy Desaint joined the global biopharmaceutical company MSD in early 2015 a Associate Director, Public Policy in Belgium, specialised in oncology policy and corporate communications. Prior to MSD, Nilsy wa Communications Manager at the European Association for Bioindustries (EuropaBio). She started her career in Public Relations agency in Brussels and Montreal (Canada), advising a wide range of corporate clients, not-for-profit organisation and international body in the health and agri-food sectors. In the EU public policy team based out of Brussels, Nilsy lead MSDs engagement on EU vaccine policy and is the co-chair of the Vaccines Europe Public Affairs Working Group. Nilsy ha followed various digital health files, from GDPR implementation to digital transformation of health care and AI. Tomaz Gornik Founder and CEO / Co-chair Better / openEHR International Tomaz ha a proven track record of delivering innovative turn-key solution for large client in telecommunications, finance and healthcare. As a company founder, CEO and experienced manager of team building world-class software product for more than 30 years, Tomaz ha a proven track record of delivering innovative turn-key solution for large client in telecommunications, finance and healthcare. He is a co-chair of the openEHR International Management Board and regularly speaks at international conference including TeleManagement Forum, HIMSS, Health 2.0, Mobile World Congress, ReWired. Donna Henderson President EHTEL In January 2021, Donna wa appointed a President of the European Health Telematics Association (EHTEL). In her role a Head of International Engagement, Donna lead the Scottish Governments Digital Health and Care Directorates International Engagement Team. The Teams objective are to enhance Scotlands reputation a a leader in digital health and care, facilitate knowledge exchange between other country and regions, and promote economic opportunity for Scotland. Donna ha been actively involved in European project since 2012 and wa Chair of the EIP on AHA B3 Action Group on Integrated Care from 2015 to 2018. She is currently Project Co-ordinator for the EU Health Programme funded project SCIROCCO Exchange which ha developed an online self-assessment tool for region to ass the maturity of their health and care system for the adoption of integrated care. In January 2021, she wa appointed a President of the European Health Telematics Association (EHTEL). She wa also proud to be recognised by HIMSS a a Future50 Class of 2021 Government Leader in May 2021. Prof. Dr. Denis Horgan Executive Director European Alliance for Personalised Medicine Prof. Denis Horgan wa a policy advisor in the European Parliament and worked with various international NGOs on health development projects. Prof. Denis Horgan, is a former Director of the European Cancer Patient Coalition, who wa also a policy advisor in the European Parliament and worked with various international NGOs on health development projects. In addition, he ha published over fifty academic article related to the area of personalised medicine. Today, Denis is the Editor in Chief of the journal entitled Public Health Genomics and he is the Executive Director from the European Alliance of Personalised Medicine (EAPM). The mix of EAPM member provides extensive scientific, clinical, caring and training expertise in personalised medicine and diagnostics, across patient groups, academia, health professional and industry. Relevant department of the European Commission have observer status, a doe your own organisation, of course. In the relatively short time since it wa formed, EAPM ha been in the vanguard of raising the profile and explaining the possibility of personalised medicine in Europe. In recent year this ha created an observable institutional shift in policy due to the issue that the Alliance ha put forward through it multi-stakeholder membership and bottom-up policy making. Dr. Maddalena Illario Co-chair European Reference Site Collaborative Network MD, PhD, Maddalena Illario is endocrinologist, Associate Professor at Federico II Department of Public Health. MD, PhD, Maddalena Illario is endocrinologist, Associate Professor at Federico II Department of Public Health, and Coordinator of the R&D Unit of Federico II Hospital. She is co-chair of the European Reference Site Collaborative Network and wa coordinator of Campania Region Division for Health Innovation until July 2020. Maddalena ha been involved in several project focusing on the digital transformation of health and care and is currently national referent for the Cost Action CA19136 NET4AGEFRIENDLY. Since May 2015, she ha been coordinator of A3 of the Action Group on Prevention of Frailty and Functional Decline of the EIPonAHA. In addtion, is coordinator of Campania Reference Site of the European Partnership on Aging Healthy and Active. Ivett Jakab President European Patients Forum Youth Group Ivett Jakab is a patient advocate and health economics researcher currently serving a the President of the European Patients Forum Youth Group. Ivett Jakab is a patient advocate and health economics researcher currently serving a the President of the European Patients Forum Youth Group. Lasse Kaalby Mller Grant Writer, Ph.D. Student Odense Universitetshospital og Svendborg Sygehus, CCEResearchInfrastructure Twinning Lasse Kaalby Mller is employed a both Ph.D. student and Grant Writer at the Department of Surgery at Odense University Hospital. Lasse Kaalby Mller is employed a both Ph.D. student and Grant Writer at the Department of Surgery at Odense University Hospital. Besides his own epidemiological research in early detection of colorectal cancer, he is also heavily involved in the Colon Capsule Endoscopy (CCE) initiatives. These range from the large-scale clinical trial CareforColon 2.015 to the research database GAIA including pursuing international collaborations. His work in these initiative center on data management, development and implementation of IT-solutions and research-related tasks. His Grant Writer responsibility include project management and facilitation of our funding activity mainly focusing on large external grants, such a Horizon Europe. Prof. Dr. Dipak Kalra President i~HD / Eurorec Professor Dipak Kalra is President of the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data. Professor Dipak Kalra is President of the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, which promotes the learning health ecosystem by developing solution to scale up the trustworthy us health data.Dipak ha led multiple European projects, and developed ISO standards, in EHR interoperability, data protection, business model and the reuse of EHRs for research. Current project include generating real worldevidence in pregnancy and several disease areas, the design and governance of patient-centric clinical trials, multi-stakeholder perspective and governance recommendation on the European Health Data Space,the collection of outcome by hospital and promoting the value of research to the public. Jesper Kjr Director Data Analytics Centre Danish Medicines Agency Having worked in the academic environment and pharmaceutical industry, Jesper Kjr ha 20+ year experience in his field. Director of the Data Analytics Centre at the Danish Medicines Agency. 20+ year experience in data management, analysis and data visualisation having worked in the academic environment and pharmaceutical industry, and he ha also developed IT system for the World Health Organization (HIV viral genetics) and University Hospital of Copenhagen (AI supported treatment). Supported HIV observational research by leading the development of data and data management standard widely used globally (HICDEP: HIV Cohorts Exchange Protocol and HIV-DDM: HIV Distributed Data Management). He ha also led the development of risk-based monitoring IT at a pharmaceutical company and ha headed activity in EU Framework Programmes (EuroSIDA, EuroCoord, COHERE, CHAIN etc), TransCelerate Biopharma (Patient Technology, eSource) and HL7 (Project Vulcan). Currently the Data Analytics Centre and the Danish Medicines Agency is involved in establishing patient level data analysis of both RCT and RWD to support the regulatory processes. Dr. Zoi Kolitsi Digital Health Strategist i~HD/Eurorec seasoned digital health expert with 20y+ history of eHealth policy support including a decade in the Greek Public Health Administration. PhD Med. Phys. A seasoned digital health expert with 20y+ history of eHealth policy support including a decade in the Greek Public Health Administration a a senior policy advisor. Currently, the Digital Health Strategist at the Institute of Innovation through Health Data (I~HD), deeply engaged in diverse aspect of digital innovation in healthcare and co-leading work on the common European Data Space within the Digital Health Europe (DHE) CSA. From her early career a a hospital-based medical physicist and founding member of the Institute of Biomedical Technology (INBIT), she also brings into her work a broad health professional, biomedical technology and quality management experience and expertise. Prof. Mark Lawler Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Digital Health Queens University Belfast / European Cancer Organisation Mark is an internationally renowned scientist whose work ha been recognised by numerous national and international awards. Mark is an internationally renowned scientist whose work ha been recognised by numerous national and international awards. He wa architect of the European Cancer Patients Bill of Rights which received The 2018 European Health Award, a prestigious award for partnership that yield real health impact in Europe. Marks work on Covid-19 and it impact on cancer service and cancer patient ha received international attention. He co-chairs E.C.Os Special Focussed Network on Covid-19 and cancer, which launched it 7-Point plan to Build Back Smarter from Covid. He co-leads E.C.Os pan European Time To Act Campaign to ensure that Covid-19 doe not stop u from tackling cancer. This work recently received the prestigious Royal College of Physicians Excellence in Patient Care Award. Dr. Niamh Lennox-Chhugani Chief Executive International Foundation for Integrated Care (IFIC) Dr. Niamh Lennox ha 30 year of experience in evidence-based transformation in healthcare internationally a a clinician, academic and consultant. Dr Niamh Lennox-Chhugani is Chief Executive of the International Foundation for Integrated Care and ha 30 year of experience in evidence-based transformation in healthcare internationally a a clinician, academic and consultant. She ha worked with many NHS Trust leadership team over the last 20 year to develop and deliver meaningful and impactful strategies. She promotes co-production a a way to engage staff and local community in successful strategy and implementation success. As a subject matter expert on integrated care a part of wider healthcare reform, she ha spoken at conferences, on panels, written papers, contributed a part of international team to health system reviews. She ha a PhD from Imperial College London in organisation change in healthcare. Campbell MacLeod Surgical Research Fellow NHS Highland Campbell MacLeod is surgical trainee based in the North of Scotland. Campbell MacLeod is surgical trainee based in the North of Scotland. He is currently undertaking a PhD with the University of Aberdeen researching colon capsule endoscopy. Campbell also work with the national ScotCap team to make colon capsule endoscopy available to patient in Scotland to improve waiting time and access to investigations. He ha worked clinically across Scotland and ha an interest in how to triage and prioritise patient for investigations. David Magboul Founder LabToMarket Late 2017, David founded LabToMarket to help startup and researcher across Europe launch their product in the market. With a degree in Biology (University of Nottingham, UK, 2004), David ha over 15years experience across the full scope of the health sector.He started a a Pharma Sales Rep at ITF-Farma, then an internship a InternationalBusiness Developer in Imbiosis, a Spanish Biotech, David later became MarketingManager for Spain & Portugal for Medical Imaging company Carestream in 2008. In2013 he moved to FUJIFILMs ultrasound company, SonoSite. Since 2014, he beenworking a a strategy consultant for several industries.Late 2017, David founded LabToMarket to help startup and researcher acrossEurope launch their product in the market. Dr. Rosana Magalhes Clinical Research Assistant, Medical Writer, Rater/Psychologist in Clinical Studies 2CA-Braga (Clinical Academic Center Braga) Rosana Magalhes is a rater (clinical psychologist) in pharmaceutical industry clinical trial at Centro Clnico Acadmico in Braga. Rosana Magalhes ha a PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Minho, with experience in the field of Neuropsychology. She is passionate about the human brain and it complex relationship with human behavior. Since 2017, she ha been a rater (clinical psychologist) in pharmaceutical industry clinical trial at Centro Clnico Acadmico in Braga (Portugal). Her great interest in clinical research ha lead her to dedicate much of her time to researcher-driven project at this center, where she is also responsible for task a a medical writer and clinical research assistant. Her work is devoted to improve clinical research. Dr. Jos Martinez-Usero European Projects FUNKA Jos Usero ha extensive experience a project coordinator of European project and several major European studies. Jos Usero ha extensive experience a project coordinator of European project and several major European study on the field of eGovernment, eInclusion and AHA (Active and Healthy Ageing). Jose Usero ha a PhD in Egov interoperability technology and he is author of several book on ICT related topic and a wide range of scientific publications. From 2013, he is holding the position of Responsible for European Projects at FUNKA. He is also the coordinator of the H2020 Coordination Action supporting the EC in the management of the EIPonAHA and fully involved in many innovation and policy initiative around digital transformation of health and care. Dr. Henrique Martins Associate Professor in Health Management, Leadership and Digital Health University Beira Interior / University Institute of Lisbon Henrique Martins is Associate Professor in Health Management, Leadership and Digital Health at University Beira Interior and ISCTE. Henrique Martins, MD, PhD, MLaw, FIAHSI is Associate Professor in Health Management, Leadership and Digital Health at University Beira Interior and University Institute of Lisbon (ISCTE). He is the past co-chair of the eHealth Network and wa president of SPMS, Portugals Digital Health Agency for about 7 years. He is now co-leading ISCTE-HEALTH, member of several advisory boards, and member of the Board of Directors of HL7 Europe Foundation. He provides independent consultancy in Digital Health to International Organisations and Projects. Lyudmil Ninov Senior Programme Officer European Patients Forum Lyudmil Ninov joined the EPF team in April 2017 and currently ha the role of Senior Programme Officer. Lyudmil Ninov joined the EPF team in April 2017 and currently ha the role of Senior Programme Officer. At EPF he oversees project development, planning and cost monitoring for H2020 and IMIprojects: COMPAR-EU, DigitalHealthEurope, H2O, PERISCOPE and PERMIT. Lyudmil hold a Bachelor degree in European Studies from the Sofia University St. Kliment Ohridski in Bulgaria and a Master degree in European Studies from the University of Maastricht, the Netherlands. Prior to joining EPF, Lyudmil spent most of his professional time working in the healthcare sector for the International Diabetes Federations head office in Brussels, managing various diabetes-related international projects. In EPF he ha several key topic of expertise such as: self-management, patient involvement & digital health. Sara Riggare Patient Researcher Uppsala University Sara Riggare (MSc, PhD cand) is a patient leader and patient researcher at Uppsala University, Sweden Sara Riggare (MSc, PhD cand) is a patient leader and patient researcher at Uppsala University, Sweden. In her work and research, she combine her engineering training with her experience from managing Parkinsons disease for over 35 years. Her research is focused on personal science, self-tracking, Quantified Self, and patient-led research. Nick Schneider Head of Division New technology and data use German Federal Ministry of Health Nick Schneider lead the division on new technology and data use at the German Federal Ministry of Health. Nick Schneider lead the division on new technology and data use at the German Federal Ministry of Health and is a passionate advocate for the EHDS and trustworthy AI for the benefit of EU citizens. He wa born and raised in Latin America and studied medicine in Heidelberg. After health advocacy and research activity in Brussels, the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) and the German Cancer Research Center, he joined the German Federal Ministry of Health, where he inter alia coordinated the negotiation to the EU General Data Protection Regulation and it implementation into health law on federal level. Gzde Susuzlu Briggs Project Coordinator Data Saves Lives / European Patients Gzde is project coordinator for #datasaveslives initiative and digital health and health data related Horizon and IMI project at EPF. Gzde worked a a Web and Online Service Manager for 6 year at an international organisation in Belgium, Brussels. Prior to that, she worked at the same organisation a a communication assistant and managed website and online service projects. Back to business since March 2019 a a project coordinator for #datasaveslives initiative and digital health and health data related Horizon and IMI project at European Patients Forum. Jon Switters European Project Manager FUNKA Since joining FUNKA, Jon Switters ha specialised in European research and innovation project in the field of digital health and accessibility. Jon ha over 15 year of experience in project management starting off his career at Pricewaterhouse Coopers (Madrid) working a a business consultant on project with the Spanish Ministry of Housing, Banco Santander and Telefnica. For the past 10 years, Jon ha been working a an EU project manager, collaborating with Malaga City Council for 6 year on EU funded sustainable development project within the city and region. Since joining FUNKA, he ha specialised in European research and innovation project in the field of digital health and accessibility, helping to promote a more inclusive society. Mathieu Thbaud Manager REHABLAB4ALL For the past three years, Mathieu Thbaud ha been the Kerpape REHAB-LAB manager. Mathieu Thbaud is an IT engineer in computer science, with 3 year of experience in a software company in France. He work in the Electronic Lab of Kerpape a a R&D engineer. He is currently involved in PREDICT4ALL a the research engineer responsible for the development of an adapted word prediction in augmentative and alternative communication systems, with previous experience in assistive software development. For the past three years, he ha also been the Kerpape REHAB-LAB manager. Dr. Rainer Thiel Head of ICT Innovation in Health & Director empirica Dr. Rainer Thiel is Head of ICT Innovation in Health and Director of empirica. Dr. Rainer Thiel is Head of ICT Innovation in Health and Director of empirica. He ha an academic and applied science background in both policy studies/comparative political system research and in socio-economic impact assessment with a focus on health system and health technologies. He ha been leading work package on market research, deployment strategy and business modelling for a multitude of H2020 RIA on Artificial Intelligence in Health, with project budget up to 15 Mill. For regulatory impact assessment study commissioned by DG Sant and the European Medicines Agency, Dr. Thiel ha managed and developed evaluation methodologies. A member of Health Technology Assessment International (HTAi), he ha been publishing about validation and economic assessment framework for the application to innovative and disruptive health technology and ICT Infostructures. Danny van Roijen Digital Health Director COCIR Danny Van Roijen is Digital Health Director at COCIR, the leading industry voice in Europe on digital health. Danny van Roijen is Digital Health Director at COCIR, the leading industry voice in Europe on digital health representing the medical imaging, radiotherapy, electromedical and health IT industries. Coordinating the association digital health activity Danny focus on European policy making, covering topic such a artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, data protection, interoperability and mHealth. Danny is a member of the European Commissions eHealth Stakeholder Group a well a the Stakeholder Cybersecurity Certification Group. On behalf of COCIR, Danny is chairing the Healthcare working group within the International Association for Trusted Blockchain Application (INATBA). Steven Vermeulen Chief Information & Infrastructure Officer EBRAINS Steven is a seasoned executive with more than 25 year of experience in different sectors, including healthcare and telecoms. Steven is a seasoned executive with more than 25 year of experience in different sectors. He worked in telecoms, space, media, advertising, logistics and healthcare. Throughout a career that started a a scientist and evolved into technical (software), management and even marketing and sale roles, the common thread ha been introducing and applying new technology in the market. Steven ha taken leading role in several internal start-ups in large company and ha done a MBO of a company in France. Recently he ha been involved in applying his experience in digital transformation and data project in several SMEs in Belgium. In EBRAINS he is responsible for the infrastructure and thus able to combine his 2 passions: science and technology. Diane Whitehouse Principal eHealth Policy Consultant EHTEL As EHTELs Principal eHealth Policy Consultant, Diane Whitehouse is involved in digitally health-related projects. Diane Whitehouse is EHTELs Principal eHealth Policy Analyst. Through EHTEL, she is involved in digitally health-related projects, such a DigitalHealthEurope which explored patient-centred care in detail, SCIROCCOExchange, and vCare. Among it wide-ranging interest in health data and digital, EHTEL now focus on hybrid care (mixed face-to-face and virtual health and care appointments) and explores hospitalisation at home and care at home settings. Until February 2007, Diane wa a Scientific Officer in the ICT for Health Unit of the European Commissions General Directorate Connect and worked previously on ageing and social inclusion. Dr. Petra Wilson Director Health Connect Partners Petra Wilson is co-founder and managing director of Health Connect Partners, a boutique consultancy on health policy. Petra Wilson is co-founder and managing director of Health Connect Partners, a boutique consultancy which focus primarily on helping client understand the European health policy environment. Current project being undertaken by Health Connect Partners include the review of cross-border patient mobility for the European Commission and supporting the development of a governance framework for the European Health Data Space. In addition, Petra also act a senior advisor on health and life science at FTI Consulting and is engaged a EU Programme Director for the Personal Connected Health Alliance (a HIMSS innovation company). Dr. Oscar Zanutto Senior Project Manager FABER Dr. Oscar Zanutto (1972) is a psychologist of work and organizations. He ha been working in ISRAA since 2000, nowadays coordinating FABER. Dr. Oscar Zanutto (1972) is a psychologist of work and organizations. He ha been working in ISRAA since 2000, nowadays coordinating FABER, an Innovation Hub dedicated to EU-Projects on social innovation. He is the Senior Project Manager in several Italian national project for the elderly funded by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. His skill are European project management, organizational service design of care delivery for seniors. He also work a a consultant for social innovation project for care provider organization in the adoption of ICT solution into new business care models. He is also a trainer in University Masters programme for psychologist managed by Padua University. He is the author of La leadership in RSA, and La Bussiness Intelligence in RSA Maggioli Editore (2013). Dr. Oliver Zobell Programme Manager Project Management Jlich Since 2019, Oliver is partaking in EU project DigitalHealthEurope, focusing mainly on re-using health data for research. After receiving his PhD in molecular biology from the University of Cologne, Oliver worked in academic research for several years. He then moved to the European Commission, to support EU politics in the area of bioanalytics standardisation. Since 2015, he is working at the Project Management Jlich, a leading German research funding agency within the Research Centre Jlich. He ha managed publicly funded research program on infectious disease and microbiological resources, with particular focus on international cooperation. Since 2019, Oliver is partaking in EU project DigitalHealthEurope, focusing mainly on re-using health data for research. Organisation Team Carola Schulz Research Consultant empirica Jessica Paul Research Consultant empirica Anett Ruszanov Research Consultant DHE Tino Marti eHealth Project Officer EHTEL Diane Whitehouse Principal eHealth Policy Consultant EHTEL Chrysoula Mitta Associate Director The Lisbon Council Charlotte Fabricius Research Consultant empirica Alexander Cuartas-Acosta European Projects Assistant empirica Daniel Schmidtmann Research Consultant empirica Ingrid Weindorfer European Projects Assistant empirica Anna Oleneva European Projects Assistant empirica Francisca Leite European Projects Assistant empirica Dr. Veli Stroetmann Director empirica Strahil Birov Research Consultant empirica Documents Outcomes The 12 session over the 3 day of the DHE Summit provided a platform for very rich expert discussion around on-the-ground digital transformation experiences, health data sharing governance models, federated systems, citizen empowerment, European Data Spaces and many other topics.Find out what happened each day in a nutshell:Day 1On Day 1 speaker reflected on what fundamental condition are necessary for digital health and care to flourish. DHE twinning representative reported on their success stories, how they managed to adopt innovative solutions, fostered co-creation, co-design with patient and overcame standardised data collection challenge across Europe. DHE partner network took stock of horizontal and vertical challenge of scaling-up, knowledge sharing and capacity building in a sustainable way, a well a the skill and capacity necessary to overcome the challenge incurred.Day 2On Day 2 panellist discussed about patient-centred and data-driven health and care. Useful hints, idea and advice were shared on how to empower and engage with citizens. Participants got an insight into citizen willingness to share their health data. We heard about data activism movement and how to foster it. Finally, argument were presented why and how federated datasets can contribute to more accurate AI algorithm and machine learning.Day 3Day 3 principal scope wa debate around the European Health Data Space (EHDS). The audience received an update onthe status of the EHDS from the European Commission, furthermore a future outlook concerning EU and Member States collaboration in the field of health and how Europe can leverage the experience from the COVID crisis. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across border What it isThis multi-stakeholder community focus on understanding whichgood practicesare used in each country that are related withcitizens secure access to and sharing of health data, and thus facilitate the adoption of aEuropean electronic health record exchange format.More specifically, the activity performed by the community have involved:Establishing afunctional collaboration platformon key aspect of the first DTHC priority;Bringing togetherEuropean, national, and regional initiatives, relevant project and expert to widen citizen access to data relevant to their health and increase their awareness about data sharing through empowerment tool and person-centred solutions. Outputs The White Paper includes important conclusion which will help the project to deliver recommendation on how to improve digital health literacy, promote citizen access to their health data and enhance citizen and patient commitment towards health data sharing. The paper collect the finding that the project team have gathered through desk research, expert interview and wide consultation around existing, novel data sharing governance models, level of trust in and awareness about health data sharing. The paper offer key conclusion for the DHE round table on person-centred solution for data sharing mechanism and data control for citizens. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care What it isThebetter data multi-stakeholder engagement mission is to identify what is needed and mobilise stakeholder to act in order to make health and care data, collected in hospitals, general practice and by patient themselves, more widely available for purpose of analysis and further research with appropriate data protection safeguards.Theultimate aimsare to improve the quality and resilience of healthcare system around Europe, help public health service to focus more on prevention and deliver better, more efficient, cost-effective and accessible service and accelerate research.In order to develop the best possible health data networksfrom which researcher and healthcare organisation can discover how to advance the quality and safety of care, the DHE multi-stakeholder engagement have identified the principal challenge and worked on recommendation on how to overcome them. These challenge were: data protection, data quality improvement, tackling data fragmentation through accelerated adoption of interoperability standard and the scalability challenge posed by personalised medicine. Outputs The roadmap outline the step and condition needed to reach the European target of at least 1 million sequenced genome collected across Member States to advance the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of communicable, non-communicable and rare diseases. The report collect the view of citizen and patient on the EHDS, their perception of the benefit of using health data on a European scale, and their consideration of important principle and value that should underpin the European Health Data Space. Digital Health Standards is a joint communication effort between the DigitalHealthEurope project, empirica and The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data to grow awareness about the importance of health ICT standards. DigitalHealthEurope present 32 actionable recommendation addressing three significant transition challenge for the EHDS: (1) From privacy protection to citizen protection. (2) From citizen a data subject to citizen a key change agent in the health data ecosystem. (3) From policy and regulatory framework to engagement, adoption and implementation. Industrys vision for the future EHDS including the commitment they would be willing to make in order to support the implementation of high priority use case such a accelerated drug and device development, AI and personalised medicine genomics. Consolidates knowledge and lesson learned from mapping the evolving European and national landscape of health data sharing for care and for research. The White Paper ha been followed by a series of stakeholder consultation about the European Health Data Space (EHDS): industry and citizens. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Digital tool for citizen empowerment and for person-centred care with a particular focus on the interaction between citizen and healthcare provider What it isThecitizen empowerment multi-stakeholder community target digital solutionsthat build the relationship and strengthen cooperation betweencitizens, patients, and healthcare providers.The activity aim at a holistic, person-centred, equitable, quality care model enabled by digital tool regardless of gender, age or ethnic origin. The identified and validated solution are also applicable to field such a personalised medicine and omics. Ultimately, the community ha also developed an empowerment roadmap for healthcare provider and larger scale healthcare ecosystem so that they can use digital solution to provide better care for patients. Outputs The report collect the view of citizen and patient on the EHDS, their perception of the benefit of using health data on a European scale, and their consideration of important principle and value that should underpin the European Health Data Space. The catalogue of 65 digital solution with high potential of scalability and replicability have been collected according to the three priority of the Digital Transformation of Health and Care (DTHC): (i) citizen secure access, (ii) better data and (iii) citizen empowerment. Solutions under this priority ha constituted the basis for the activity carried out by the citizen empowerment community. The roadmap outline the component of empowerment particularly at organisational level to improve the interaction between patient and healthcare professional and actor of the healthcare system including authority and the industry whilst increasing trust and confidence and digital tools. The White Paper elaborates on the issue described in the roadmap. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu DigitalHealthEuropeSupport to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single MarketDigital Solutions for Health and Care Management in Times of CoronavirusA catalogue of mature telehealth solution which enable remote/tele-monitoring, ePrescribing and other remotely managed service during the COVID-19 pandemic. Better Implementation of Data Infrastructures and Secondary Uses of Health DataA DigitalHealthEurope White Paper explores the evolving European and national landscape of health data-sharing for care and for researchDigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solution supporting the digital transformation of health and careBrowse the database of 65 mature digital solution resulting from EU-funded project and initiative that address challenge related to key policy priorities.Scaling up of Digitally-enabled Health and Care Solutions via TwinningsFind out more about the ongoing DigitalHealthEurope Twinnings awarded funding a a result of the DHE Calls for Twinnings. Previous slide Next slide DigitalHealthEurope recommendation on the European Health Data Space Supporting responsible health data sharing and use through governance, policy and practiceAfter almost two year of intense consultation with nearly 140 stakeholder and expert from diverse areas, DigitalHealthEurope ha developed proposal for regulatory action, policy and strategy, a well a further action of support to enable responsible health data sharing and use. These recommendation are directed towards the envisioned European Health Data Space (EHDS), which the European Commission will define in a specific legal framework until the end of 2021. Aim of the EHDS is to facilitate the sharing and us of Real World Health Data within and especially beyond healthcare.In this context, DigitalHealthEurope present 32 actionable recommendation addressing three significant transition challenge for the EHDS:From privacy protection to citizen protection.From citizen a data subject to citizen a key change agent in the health data ecosystem.From policy and regulatory framework to engagement, adoption and implementation. 49 Empowering citizen and building a healthier society through digital health DigitalHealthEurope will providecomprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The project approach involves a number of action that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priority for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), a outlined in the European Commissions 2018on the topic. The priority concern: citizen secure access to and sharing of health data across border better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offer two form of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020. Support to large scale deployment of digital solution for person-centred integrated care DigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tool will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instrument and financing sources. The selected initiative will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instrument such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisation will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklist and documented successful approaches. These result will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lesson learned. Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder community DigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These community directly address the three priorities.Each of the community will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated expert and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcome such a white papers, guideline and policy recommendations. DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The result will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended actions. Latest News There are many digitally enabled health and care solution and practice developed a part of Europe research & innovation projects, national funding programmes, private undertakings, competitions, etc., but it is oftentimes difficult to get Dementia and moderate cognitive impairment are some of the most common challenge faced by older citizens. Kwido Mementia ha become a result of the twinning cooperation between Ideable Solutions, Spain (twinning originator) and the Video explaining the adoption of the Social-Health Folder twinning aimed at digitalisation of healthcare administration and management. During the course of it action, the Digital Health Europe (DHE) project ha produced numerous valuable outputs, including white paper and recommendations, the DHE forum, collection of useful resource for people working in the Tweets back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope provides comprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The project approach involves a number of action that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priority for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), a outlined in theon the topic. The priority concern:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offer two form of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020.Support to large scale deployment of digital solution for person-centred integrated careDigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tool will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instrument and financing sources. The selected initiative will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instrument such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisation will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklist and documented successful approaches. These result will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lesson learned.Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder communitiesDigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These community directly address the three priorities.Each of the community will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated expert and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcome such a white papers, guideline and policy recommendations.DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The result will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended action back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Who we are TheDigitalHealthEurope consortium comprises 17 partner from 10 European countries. empirica Communication and Technology Research is a private research and consultancy company based in Bonn, Germany. empirica boast a broad understanding of political, strategic, clinical, business and socio-economic question raised by health system change and eHealth innovation. Its long-standing expertise lie in the analysis of new technology opportunity against user requirement and business models. empirica ha a long track record of managing large-scale European project for both private and public clients.As Coordinator of DigitalHealthEurope, empirica is responsible for all project management task and will closely support partner leading dissemination activities. empirica will lead activity related to the development of the twinning scheme for digital solution for person-centred integrated care, including managing the call for twinning process and the awarding of the twinning contracts. empirica is also tasked with identifying and analysing the key building block for scaling up deployment across Europe and will be responsible for transposing project output into a strategic vision of EU coordination and support on digital transformation beyond 2020. AGE Platform Europe (AGE) is a European network of 110 organisation of and for people aged 50+, established a an international not-for-profit organisation under the Belgian Law since 2001. AGE address a wide range of policy area that have an impact on older and retired people, raising awareness of the issue that concern them most and lending them a voice in EU policy debates. Furthermore, AGE is active in some key European initiative such as: the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing; the Financial Services Users Group, and several EU-wide network such a the Covenant on Demographic Change and the European Public Health Alliance.Within DigitalHealthEurope, AGE will contribute to the analysis of person-centred integrated care initiatives, the twinning scheme, a well a assist with designing the framework for capacity and capability building in a way that address the need of older people and their informal carers. AGE will also support the development of the collaboration platform on citizen access to their data. Founded in 1989, the Central European Initiative (CEI) is a regional intergovernmental forum committed to supporting European integration through cooperation. The CEI ha become a recognised promoter of EU/non-EU-country partnership. Its membership currently count seventeen country of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe who are differently positioned vis--vis the EU. Ten of them are EU Member States: Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. Another four are EU membership candidates: Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. The remaining one are made up by a potential candidate, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and three country involved in the European Neighbourhood Policy: Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine. The CEI Executive Secretariat will support DigitalHealthEurope through it expertise in the analysis of the EU strategy on health and social care and their implementation. Furthermore, it will employ it long-standing experience in the promotion of regional cooperation, reaching out to it established network in Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. Since it foundation in 2012, the Alliance ha brought together European healthcare expert and patient advocate involved with major chronic diseases, shaping the personalised health policy agenda. The mission of the Alliance is to improve healthcare by accelerating the development, delivery and uptake of personalised medicine and diagnostics, through consensus. Its diverse membership provides extensive scientific, clinical, care and training expertise in personalised medicine and diagnostics, across patient groups, academia, health professionals, and industry. Relevant department of the European Commission have observer status.Within DigitalHealthEurope, the Alliance will contribute to the development of the collaborative platform for health data infrastructure. It will focus on coordination and support to advance personalised medicine and, by mean of a survey, ass current proposed standard such a the technical framework developed by the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. EAPM will also address how to stimulate the demand for combining, sharing and analysing population-scale health data. ECHAlliance represents a community of 600+ member organisation and 16,500+ experts: driving sustainable change and innovative disruption in the delivery of health and social care. It organises ecosystem meeting (100+ a year), international events, and unites stakeholder under the online platform called Connector. Active in 50+ regions/countries (in Europe a well a Canada, China, and the USA), the ECHAlliance member develop innovative solution around mobile Health, chronic diseases, active & healthy ageing, Internet of Things, wearables, personalised medicine, genomics, Big Data, virtual reality, and artificial intelligence.As part of DigitalHealthEurope, ECHAlliance will conduct a survey to capture the vision held by both demand side actor (e.g., policy-makers, healthcare providers, patients/citizens, and insurers) and supply side actor (e.g., large companies, start-ups and SMEs, researchers), on the digital transformation of health and care priorities. ECHAlliance will also oversee the process of drafting recommendation on citizen-controlled data governance and data donation. Founded a a non-profit trade association in 1959, COCIR represents the Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT industry in Europe. As the EU leading industry voice on Digital Health, COCIR is committed to supporting it member and communicating with it partner in Europe and beyond on issue which affect the medical technology sector and the health of EU citizens. COCIR also work with various organisation in promoting harmonised international standard and fair regulatory control that respect the quality and effectiveness of medical device and healthcare IT system without compromising the safety of patient and users. COCIRs key objective include the active support of free worldwide trade of medical device and maintaining the competitiveness of the European health sector. As part of DigitalHealthEurope, COCIR will help to communicate the vision espoused by the supplier of solution for the digital transformation of health and care. Furthermore, it will facilitate insight from industry into developing patient empowerment solutions. EHTEL is the leading European forum for decision-makers and implementers in Europe, engaged in supporting the transformation of the health and care practice in Europe through digitalisation. The association brings together under one roof a wide range of constituency crucial for the improvement of health and social care with health IT. EHTEL provides a platform for information, representation, networking, and co-operation to it 50+ corporate members. EHTEL joined the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing at it launch in 2012. It ha been part of the Blueprint / Digital Transformation of Health and Care Partners since July 2016.As part of DigitalHealthEurope, EHTEL will oversee and lead activity related to communication, dissemination, and stakeholder engagement. It will further contribute to activity related to setting up the call for twinning and producing the final twinning report. EuroRec is an independent not-for-profit organisation, promoting the use of high quality Electronic Health Record system (EHRs) in Europe. EuroRec undertakes activity that support the effective and meaningful use of high quality and interoperable application by healthcare professionals, meeting well-specified, functional, content-related, interoperability and governance requirements. As the most experienced European certification body, one of it main mission is to support EHR system conformity assessment and quality labelling by defining relevant functional and non-functional criteria.In the context of DigitalHealthEurope, EuroRec is responsible for the collaboration platform on better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care, focusing on aggregated demand for European eHealth and health data infrastructure and services. It will work with many different type of stakeholder to identify business driver and case that can scale up the demand for infrastructures, service and data itself, at a European level. Founded in 2003, the European Patients Forum (EPF) is an umbrella organisation that work with patient group in public health and health advocacy across Europe. Members represent specific chronic disease group at EU level or are national coalition of patients. The EPF advocate for access to high quality, patient-centred, equitablehealthand social care for all patient with chronic and/or lifelong condition in the EU. It ensures that the patient community drive policy and programme that affect patient livesso a tobring about change empowering patient to be equal citizen in the EU.WithinDigitalHealthEuropeEPF is responsible for the collaboration platform on digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care, conducting research and evaluation on the impact of these kind of solutions. EPF will also contribute to task related to citizen and healthcare provider interaction and the collaboration platform on better data to advance research, disease prevention, and personalised health and care. Founded in 2001, ERRIN is a Brussels-based platform of research and innovation organisation and stakeholder in regions. ERRIN aim to strengthen regional Research and Innovation capacity by exchanging information, sharing best practices, supporting European project development, policy shaping and profile raising by working in partnership. ERRIN help region get their voice heard in Brussels. ERRIN member are place-based, not-for-profit organisation or their representative office in the Belgian capital. Through it 12 thematic Working Groups and the policy group, ERRIN facilitates contact between regional office and region so that they can enhance their knowledge of European Research and Innovation policy and developstrategicEuropean project to strengthen regional competitiveness.As part of theDigitalHealthEuropeconsortium, ERRIN is responsible for widening and sustaining stakeholder engagement. ERRIN will also lend it support to activity related to digital solution for person-centred integrated care, establishing the twinning marketplace scheme and patient empowerment. ForschungszentrumJlich(FZJ) is one of the largest interdisciplinary research centre in Europe. Based inJlich, Germany, it is also a leading research funding agency in the country, managing Research & Development and Innovation fund totalling more than 1,6 billion , on behalf of various federal and state ministry The programme managed cover biomedical area such a bioinformatics, omics-technologies, system biology and the internationalisation of medical informatics. FZJ also host several Horizon 2020 national contact points, most importantly for the Life Sciences thematic priority of the programme.WithinDigitalHealthEurope, FZJ will support the collaboration platform on better data infrastructures. It will help to identify the most relevant ongoing initiative and key stakeholders. Additionally, with support from experts, it will identify and analyse the main challenges, technical issues, way to link different data sources, and solution to address data interoperability, reusability, and knowledge extraction. The research will also determine lesson learnt, success factors, and good practice examples. FUNKA is a market-leading SME in the field of accessibility and enjoys a close relationship with end-user organisations. The focus of FUNKAs work go in four distinct directions: eGovernment, eHealth, eLearning, andeInclusion. The company business concept is to offer expert service regarding ICT for a better quality of life, and to produce user-friendly, efficient, and accessible online solutions. From office located in Stockholm, Sweden; Oslo, Norway; and Madrid, Spain, FUNKA expert contribute to the work of the national standardisation body in the threecountries, andsupport international and European standardisation efforts.WithinDigitalHealthEurope, FUNKA will analyse and identify person-centred integrated care initiative and the available funding support sources. FUNKA will also support task pursuing the scaling-up of deployment in Europe, in particular, theanalysis and identification of building block and the development of a framework for capacity and capability building. IFIC is a not-for-profit network incorporated a a foundation in the Netherlands. IFICs mission is to cross organisational and professional boundariesin order tobring people together to advance the science, knowledge and adoption of integrated care in policy and practice. IFIC seek to achieve this through the development and exchange of idea among academics, researchers, managers, clinicians,policy-makersand people who use services, alongside theircarersand family throughout the world. A key focus of IFIC is to act a a research hub in partnership with it member and external academic centre internationally.In the context ofDigitalHealthEurope, IFIC will focus on scaling up the deployment of solution for the Digital Transformation of Health and Care. It will also provide input into identifying and examining the integrated care evidence offered by key stakeholder with tailored advice and support. The Lisbon Council for Economic Competitiveness and Social Renewal wa founded in 2003 a a non-profit association, under Belgian law. It wa set up to accompany the Lisbon Agenda, Europes original growth and job programme. Over time, it ha developed a pronounced focus on innovation in the public sector, digital technologies, human capitaland skills, couched in the broader context of growth and jobs.The Lisbon Council ha a very active and dedicated community of supporter throughout Europe, numbering in the thousands. The Lisbon Councils involvement inDigitalHealthEuropewill reflect this capacity, where it is responsible for external communication,eventsand medium campaigns. Furthermore, the Council will participate actively in further developing and joining up the three collaboration platform by linking them to other relevant portals. Open Evidence offer research-based evidence and practical support for the public and private sectors, delivering theory-based and empirically robust practical insight for innovative and inclusive policy and strategies. Its domain of intervention are Information Society, Health and Consumer, and Research and Innovation policy.OpenEvidencespecialises in policy study and research and ha participated in preparing policy recommendation and promoting stakeholder engagement at an EU level. Its position enables it to serve a a bridge between academia andpolicy-making. Open Evidences expertise also includes the development of tool for online engagement and data-driven monitoring and analysis of policy interventions. One example is the Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP) tool. The RSCN provides a collaborative approach to the sharing and transfer of best practice in the development and scaling-up of health and care strategies, policies, and service delivery models. The RSCN is recognised by the European Commission a the principal forum representing all European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing Reference Sites. The network mission is to optimise the sharing of a strong, sustainable health and care system for all, while respecting the different competence and responsibility in the health and care service of the Member States and Regions.As part of theDigitalHealthEuropeconsortium, the RSCN will closely support task related to identifying solution for person-centred integrated care and the twinning marketplace scheme. It will also contribute to the development of the collaboration platform on citizen access to health data and on digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. SPMS represents the Shared Services of the Portuguese Ministry of Health and act a the Ministrys central purchasing and IT authority. Its aim is to provide shared service to organisation operatingin the area ofhealth, in order to centralise, optimise and rationalise the procurement of good and service in the Portuguese national health system. SPMS also promotes the definition and use of standards, methodology and requirement that guarantee the interoperability and interconnection of health information system and cross-sectional information system of the public administration.In the context ofDigitalHealthEurope, SPMS is responsible for the development of the collaborative platform on citizen secure access to and management of their health data, and it will conduct a review of the solution and system currently in place. This review will support elaborating guideline for citizen-controlled data governance and data donation. Furthermore, SPMS will analyse evidence from European project on solution for patient empowerment and citizen / healthcare practitioner interactions, with a view to scaling up their support. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Events No more result back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinnings DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly support thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solution in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings work and what can and ha already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. What are Twinnings? Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practice from one region to another. The approach ha been successfully tested in a number of EU project and studies, including the.The region that offer the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activity include the venture needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meeting or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fee for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solution by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solution with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fee for professional service not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contract with agreed activity and deliverables; regular reporting Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that support the Digital Single Markets three priority for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunity between more than 90 organisation will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE ha organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. Twinning Types Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It ha different condition for it budget, deployment timeframe, and the expert required.The five type range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly target local authorities: they can be authority that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other region in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discus a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and it transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopter (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopter is expected to be very similar. Well-established solution are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the content of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authority that wish to implement aspect of an originator innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, a well a the reason why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly target local authority with well established relation with other authority in Europe (e.g. through memorandum of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aim to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originator infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). Examples of type of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February May 2020)excludes Adaptation a a potential Twinning type. Twinning Success Stories The concept of twinnings ha already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success story from region around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning a part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning wa for Zagreb to learn about theand implement element of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced region in order to find digital solution related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experience of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategy in place. Andalusias more than 20 year of experience in eHealth system development and it elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that support the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administration thanks, among other things, to it cutting-edge service such a the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshop with primary care physician and ICT service provider in order to find the best way to implement the desired element in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care provider and health care workers.Healthcare service for complex patient have been improvedbased on example from Andalusia health service with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding result wa thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service foster collaboration between cure and care sector and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial saving for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of module which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module wa developed based on the twinning result Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred service couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indication that some solution could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solution is to showcase the benefit of the solution in small-scale pilot and communicate well on different level to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy. A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th 13th January 2017), a part of the 2016. Both region are recognised a 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 year to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia wa developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedure were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform ha been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and it design ha involved professional from the University. Among it users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the user path in the service wa analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demand of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipality that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic area of Scotland.Among the service available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, a well a the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspect to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 week with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform wa offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform wa not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 time more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gap to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform manager commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategy developed in collaboration with voluntary association and the third sector. Among the challenge for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate service and other service available in the community; stability in work team due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit wa to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project wa presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resource into a single repository to provide a unique access to the user history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendation for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting user about their needs, expectation and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the manager and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered user and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of it design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia. The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopter took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning wa to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other region and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristic and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective wa to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adult and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it ha been used in 15 different European country adapted to the different languages, culture and the legal system. Due to it success it is available today in 23 country and 17 language with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or region across Europe and 885 patient have been enrolled in the twinning. The result show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patient compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategy is suggested. Moreover, result show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include question that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90. Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partner were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and example of how becoming involved in collaborative activity might generate result to exploit at local level (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement ha been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional cluster ha been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor ha been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that ha been providing further element to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 project of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania a AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania ha been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and it Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aim to develop an inter-professional care model (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patient affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and us clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by user through the network of local health agency and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania ha been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subject with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that ha been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patient with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic property of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patient with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that support rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial video and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania ha been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflow in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania a OriginatorCampania ha been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided a a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patient at home, a if the patient wa still in the hospital. The data collected at the patient home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feed the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience ha been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issue (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practice that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative tie with EU region through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenue for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystem brings the added value of supporting region to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenge that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building block emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision. Twinning Marketplace Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offer an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender. The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance Twinning Results The result of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu DigitalHealthEurope Twinning Results As part of the DigitalHealthEurope Twinning Scheme, two Calls for Twinnings have been successfully organised in 2019 and 2020 respectively. The first call wa open between 14 June and 7 August, 2019. A second call wa launched on 26 February and closed on 22 May 2020. As a result of the two calls, 25 twinning application were awarded funding. Participation in the Twinning Scheme wa open to regional government body and health and care providers, a well a organisation legally affiliated with them. Interested party had the opportunity to partner up a adopter and originator of innovative solutions. Based on the complexity of envisioned twinning activities, submission were divided into the following types: Full adoption (10 winning tenders) Partial adoption (9 winning tenders) Knowledge exchange and training (6 winning tenders) Twinning implementation ha been ongoing since September 2019. Of the winning tenders, 9 involve more than one adopter. Most tender are focused on digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. In total, 76 organisation from 20 country became involved in the adoption and transfer of innovative solution between European region through the DHE Twinning scheme. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinnings DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly support thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solution in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings work and what can and ha already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. What are Twinnings? Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practice from one region to another. The approach ha been successfully tested in a number of EU project and studies, including the.The region that offer the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activity include the venture needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meeting or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fee for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solution by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solution with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fee for professional service not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contract with agreed activity and deliverables; regular reporting Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that support the Digital Single Markets three priority for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunity between more than 90 organisation will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE ha organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. Twinning Types Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It ha different condition for it budget, deployment timeframe, and the expert required.The five type range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly target local authorities: they can be authority that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other region in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discus a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and it transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopter (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopter is expected to be very similar. Well-established solution are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the content of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authority that wish to implement aspect of an originator innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, a well a the reason why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly target local authority with well established relation with other authority in Europe (e.g. through memorandum of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aim to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originator infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). Examples of type of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February May 2020)excludes Adaptation a a potential Twinning type. Twinning Success Stories The concept of twinnings ha already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success story from region around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning a part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning wa for Zagreb to learn about theand implement element of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced region in order to find digital solution related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experience of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategy in place. Andalusias more than 20 year of experience in eHealth system development and it elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that support the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administration thanks, among other things, to it cutting-edge service such a the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshop with primary care physician and ICT service provider in order to find the best way to implement the desired element in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care provider and health care workers.Healthcare service for complex patient have been improvedbased on example from Andalusia health service with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding result wa thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service foster collaboration between cure and care sector and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial saving for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of module which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module wa developed based on the twinning result Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred service couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indication that some solution could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solution is to showcase the benefit of the solution in small-scale pilot and communicate well on different level to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy. A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th 13th January 2017), a part of the 2016. Both region are recognised a 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 year to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia wa developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedure were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform ha been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and it design ha involved professional from the University. Among it users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the user path in the service wa analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demand of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipality that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic area of Scotland.Among the service available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, a well a the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspect to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 week with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform wa offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform wa not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 time more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gap to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform manager commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategy developed in collaboration with voluntary association and the third sector. Among the challenge for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate service and other service available in the community; stability in work team due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit wa to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project wa presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resource into a single repository to provide a unique access to the user history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendation for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting user about their needs, expectation and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the manager and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered user and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of it design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia. The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopter took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning wa to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other region and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristic and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective wa to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adult and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it ha been used in 15 different European country adapted to the different languages, culture and the legal system. Due to it success it is available today in 23 country and 17 language with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or region across Europe and 885 patient have been enrolled in the twinning. The result show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patient compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategy is suggested. Moreover, result show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include question that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90. Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partner were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and example of how becoming involved in collaborative activity might generate result to exploit at local level (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement ha been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional cluster ha been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor ha been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that ha been providing further element to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 project of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania a AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania ha been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and it Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aim to develop an inter-professional care model (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patient affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and us clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by user through the network of local health agency and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania ha been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subject with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that ha been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patient with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic property of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patient with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that support rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial video and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania ha been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflow in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania a OriginatorCampania ha been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided a a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patient at home, a if the patient wa still in the hospital. The data collected at the patient home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feed the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience ha been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issue (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practice that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative tie with EU region through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenue for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystem brings the added value of supporting region to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenge that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building block emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision. Twinning Marketplace Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offer an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender. The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance Twinning Results The result of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinnings DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly support thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solution in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings work and what can and ha already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. What are Twinnings? Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practice from one region to another. The approach ha been successfully tested in a number of EU project and studies, including the.The region that offer the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activity include the venture needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meeting or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fee for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solution by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solution with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fee for professional service not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contract with agreed activity and deliverables; regular reporting Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that support the Digital Single Markets three priority for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunity between more than 90 organisation will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE ha organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. Twinning Types Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It ha different condition for it budget, deployment timeframe, and the expert required.The five type range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly target local authorities: they can be authority that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other region in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discus a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and it transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopter (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopter is expected to be very similar. Well-established solution are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the content of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authority that wish to implement aspect of an originator innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, a well a the reason why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly target local authority with well established relation with other authority in Europe (e.g. through memorandum of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aim to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originator infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). Examples of type of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February May 2020)excludes Adaptation a a potential Twinning type. Twinning Success Stories The concept of twinnings ha already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success story from region around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning a part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning wa for Zagreb to learn about theand implement element of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced region in order to find digital solution related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experience of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategy in place. Andalusias more than 20 year of experience in eHealth system development and it elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that support the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administration thanks, among other things, to it cutting-edge service such a the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshop with primary care physician and ICT service provider in order to find the best way to implement the desired element in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care provider and health care workers.Healthcare service for complex patient have been improvedbased on example from Andalusia health service with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding result wa thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service foster collaboration between cure and care sector and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial saving for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of module which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module wa developed based on the twinning result Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred service couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indication that some solution could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solution is to showcase the benefit of the solution in small-scale pilot and communicate well on different level to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy. A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th 13th January 2017), a part of the 2016. Both region are recognised a 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 year to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia wa developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedure were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform ha been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and it design ha involved professional from the University. Among it users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the user path in the service wa analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demand of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipality that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic area of Scotland.Among the service available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, a well a the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspect to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 week with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform wa offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform wa not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 time more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gap to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform manager commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategy developed in collaboration with voluntary association and the third sector. Among the challenge for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate service and other service available in the community; stability in work team due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit wa to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project wa presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resource into a single repository to provide a unique access to the user history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendation for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting user about their needs, expectation and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the manager and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered user and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of it design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia. The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopter took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning wa to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other region and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristic and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective wa to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adult and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it ha been used in 15 different European country adapted to the different languages, culture and the legal system. Due to it success it is available today in 23 country and 17 language with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or region across Europe and 885 patient have been enrolled in the twinning. The result show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patient compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategy is suggested. Moreover, result show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include question that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90. Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partner were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and example of how becoming involved in collaborative activity might generate result to exploit at local level (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement ha been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional cluster ha been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor ha been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that ha been providing further element to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 project of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania a AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania ha been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and it Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aim to develop an inter-professional care model (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patient affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and us clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by user through the network of local health agency and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania ha been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subject with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that ha been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patient with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic property of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patient with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that support rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial video and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania ha been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflow in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania a OriginatorCampania ha been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided a a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patient at home, a if the patient wa still in the hospital. The data collected at the patient home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feed the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience ha been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issue (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practice that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative tie with EU region through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenue for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystem brings the added value of supporting region to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenge that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building block emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision. Twinning Marketplace Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offer an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender. The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance Twinning Results The result of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinnings DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly support thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solution in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings work and what can and ha already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. What are Twinnings? Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practice from one region to another. The approach ha been successfully tested in a number of EU project and studies, including the.The region that offer the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activity include the venture needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meeting or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fee for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solution by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solution with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fee for professional service not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contract with agreed activity and deliverables; regular reporting Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that support the Digital Single Markets three priority for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunity between more than 90 organisation will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE ha organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. Twinning Types Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It ha different condition for it budget, deployment timeframe, and the expert required.The five type range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly target local authorities: they can be authority that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other region in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discus a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and it transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopter (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopter is expected to be very similar. Well-established solution are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the content of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authority that wish to implement aspect of an originator innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, a well a the reason why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly target local authority with well established relation with other authority in Europe (e.g. through memorandum of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aim to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originator infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). Examples of type of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February May 2020)excludes Adaptation a a potential Twinning type. Twinning Success Stories The concept of twinnings ha already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success story from region around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning a part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning wa for Zagreb to learn about theand implement element of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced region in order to find digital solution related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experience of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategy in place. Andalusias more than 20 year of experience in eHealth system development and it elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that support the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administration thanks, among other things, to it cutting-edge service such a the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshop with primary care physician and ICT service provider in order to find the best way to implement the desired element in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care provider and health care workers.Healthcare service for complex patient have been improvedbased on example from Andalusia health service with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding result wa thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service foster collaboration between cure and care sector and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial saving for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of module which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module wa developed based on the twinning result Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred service couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indication that some solution could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solution is to showcase the benefit of the solution in small-scale pilot and communicate well on different level to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy. A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th 13th January 2017), a part of the 2016. Both region are recognised a 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 year to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia wa developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedure were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform ha been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and it design ha involved professional from the University. Among it users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the user path in the service wa analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demand of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipality that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic area of Scotland.Among the service available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, a well a the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspect to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 week with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform wa offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform wa not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 time more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gap to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform manager commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategy developed in collaboration with voluntary association and the third sector. Among the challenge for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate service and other service available in the community; stability in work team due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit wa to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project wa presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resource into a single repository to provide a unique access to the user history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendation for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting user about their needs, expectation and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the manager and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered user and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of it design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia. The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopter took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning wa to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other region and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristic and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective wa to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adult and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it ha been used in 15 different European country adapted to the different languages, culture and the legal system. Due to it success it is available today in 23 country and 17 language with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or region across Europe and 885 patient have been enrolled in the twinning. The result show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patient compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategy is suggested. Moreover, result show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include question that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90. Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partner were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and example of how becoming involved in collaborative activity might generate result to exploit at local level (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement ha been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional cluster ha been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor ha been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that ha been providing further element to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 project of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania a AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania ha been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and it Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aim to develop an inter-professional care model (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patient affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and us clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by user through the network of local health agency and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania ha been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subject with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that ha been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patient with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic property of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patient with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that support rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial video and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania ha been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflow in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania a OriginatorCampania ha been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided a a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patient at home, a if the patient wa still in the hospital. The data collected at the patient home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feed the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience ha been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issue (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practice that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative tie with EU region through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenue for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystem brings the added value of supporting region to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenge that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building block emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision. Twinning Marketplace Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offer an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender. The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance Twinning Results The result of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinnings DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly support thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solution in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings work and what can and ha already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. What are Twinnings? Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practice from one region to another. The approach ha been successfully tested in a number of EU project and studies, including the.The region that offer the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activity include the venture needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meeting or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fee for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solution by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solution with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fee for professional service not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contract with agreed activity and deliverables; regular reporting Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that support the Digital Single Markets three priority for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunity between more than 90 organisation will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE ha organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. Twinning Types Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It ha different condition for it budget, deployment timeframe, and the expert required.The five type range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly target local authorities: they can be authority that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other region in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discus a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and it transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopter (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopter is expected to be very similar. Well-established solution are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the content of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authority that wish to implement aspect of an originator innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, a well a the reason why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly target local authority with well established relation with other authority in Europe (e.g. through memorandum of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aim to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originator infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). Examples of type of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February May 2020)excludes Adaptation a a potential Twinning type. Twinning Success Stories The concept of twinnings ha already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success story from region around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning a part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning wa for Zagreb to learn about theand implement element of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced region in order to find digital solution related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experience of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategy in place. Andalusias more than 20 year of experience in eHealth system development and it elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that support the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administration thanks, among other things, to it cutting-edge service such a the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshop with primary care physician and ICT service provider in order to find the best way to implement the desired element in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care provider and health care workers.Healthcare service for complex patient have been improvedbased on example from Andalusia health service with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding result wa thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service foster collaboration between cure and care sector and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial saving for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of module which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module wa developed based on the twinning result Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred service couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indication that some solution could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solution is to showcase the benefit of the solution in small-scale pilot and communicate well on different level to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy. A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th 13th January 2017), a part of the 2016. Both region are recognised a 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 year to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia wa developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedure were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform ha been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and it design ha involved professional from the University. Among it users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the user path in the service wa analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demand of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipality that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic area of Scotland.Among the service available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, a well a the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspect to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 week with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform wa offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform wa not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 time more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gap to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform manager commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategy developed in collaboration with voluntary association and the third sector. Among the challenge for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate service and other service available in the community; stability in work team due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit wa to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project wa presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resource into a single repository to provide a unique access to the user history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendation for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting user about their needs, expectation and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the manager and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered user and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of it design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia. The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopter took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning wa to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other region and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristic and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective wa to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adult and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it ha been used in 15 different European country adapted to the different languages, culture and the legal system. Due to it success it is available today in 23 country and 17 language with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or region across Europe and 885 patient have been enrolled in the twinning. The result show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patient compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategy is suggested. Moreover, result show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include question that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90. Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partner were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and example of how becoming involved in collaborative activity might generate result to exploit at local level (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement ha been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional cluster ha been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor ha been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that ha been providing further element to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 project of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania a AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania ha been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and it Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aim to develop an inter-professional care model (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patient affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and us clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by user through the network of local health agency and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania ha been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subject with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that ha been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patient with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic property of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patient with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that support rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial video and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania ha been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflow in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania a OriginatorCampania ha been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided a a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patient at home, a if the patient wa still in the hospital. The data collected at the patient home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feed the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience ha been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issue (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practice that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative tie with EU region through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenue for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystem brings the added value of supporting region to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenge that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building block emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision. Twinning Marketplace Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offer an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender. The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance Twinning Results The result of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinning FAQ Twinning activity must involve the transfer of digital know-how to at least one Twinning Adopter region from another region or organisation (Twinning Originator). Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different countries. Participation in this Request for Twinning Tenders is open on equal term to legal entity established in a Member State (MS) of the European Union (EU). The call doe not specify a maximum number of Twinning Adopters per twinning. For personnel costs, individual contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation. An organisation may participate in more than one twinning tender, so long a the twinning solution and the twinning activity are both significantly different. The total budget for all twinnings to be funded in this call is 932,000. Twinning contract will be awarded based on the available budget, i.e. contract will be awarded until the remaining budget is insufficient to fund the next best twinning tender that ha passed the evaluation threshold. The maximum allowed budget for each twinning type are a follows: Knowledge exchange & training, digital skills: 5,000 Adaptation: 9,500 Partial adoption : 17,000 Full adoption / acquisition: 43,000 An organisation may participate in more than one twinning tender, so long a the twinning solution and the twinning activity are both significantly different. Any such cost must fall under eligibility criterion specified in the Grant Agreement, such a in Article 6.2 D.3: Costs of other good and service (including related duties, tax and charge such a non-deductible value added tax (VAT) paid by the beneficiary) are eligible, if they are:(a)purchased specifically for the action and in accordance with Article 10.1.1 or(b)contributed in kind against payment and in accordance with Article 11.1.Such good and service include, for instance, consumables and supplies, dissemination (including open access), protection of results, certificate on the financial statement (if they are required by the Agreement), certificate on the methodology, translation and publications. At this point in time no extension of the deadline is planned. However, DigitalHealthEurope is monitoring closely the situation. An extension of the call regarding some twinning type is being considered. For personnel costs, individual contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation. Twinning Solutions should not have been used in the adopting region(s) before the twinning take place. Participation in this Request for Twinning Tenders is open on equal term to legal entity established in a Member State (MS) of the European Union (EU). EIP on AHA Reference Site status is not a requirement in this call. Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different countries. In case of multiple Twinning Adopters, at least one must be from a country different to this of the Twinning Originator. For personnel costs, individual contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation. A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entity established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category. A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entity established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category. At this point in time we are not aware of further twinning call planned for 2020. Participation in this Request for Twinning Tenders is open on equal term to legal entity established in a Member State (MS) of the European Union (EU). A specific note on UK participant is provided on page 14 of the Request for Twinning Tenders (TD0). Twinning activity must involve the transfer of digital know-how to at least one Twinning Adopter region from another region or organisation (Twinning Originator). Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different country A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entity established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category. The focus of twinning is on local, regional and national health and care provider in Europe that wish to adopt innovative solution which are available for transfer from another local, regional and national health and care provider in Europe. As the twinning scheme is implemented within a Horizon2020 project, H2020 eligible country can apply. For personnel costs, individual contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation. The focus of twinning is on local, regional and national health and care provider in Europe that wish to adopt innovative solution which are available for transfer from elsewhere. The twinning scheme doe not foresee ceiling related to the three EC priority described in the twinning call. Twinning Subcontracting is a fixed sum due on completion of the twinning activity and acceptance of the invoice for funding by the Commission. Twinning Subcontracting can cover not only subcontracting taking place for the twinning itself, but also other cost incurred by Originator and Adopter(s) which cannot be invoiced directly to the Acting Procurer either a Twinning Personnel or Twinning Direct Costs. The twinning scheme doe not discus TRL levels. Maturity is an award criterion in the call, with the evidence of effectiveness required to be clearly described in the technical section. A twinning tender must be submitted by a single organisation. The budget provided in Table 1 in TD0 are per twinning. Twinning activity must involve the transfer of digital know-how to at least one Twinning Adopter region from another region or organisation (Twinning Originator). Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different country Twinnings can be between one Twinning Originator one Twinning Adopter, or between one Twinning Originator and multiple Adopters. Note that the maximum allowed for Twinning Subcontracting is not additional: it should be included in the maximum cost of one twinning. A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entity established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category. The contract will be awarded to the most economically advantageous tender a described in the Request for Twinning Tenders (TD0). A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entity established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category. For the Twinning Personnel budget, eligibility criterion are specified in Grant Agreement 6.2 A.2: The cost for natural person working under a direct contract with the beneficiary other than an employment contract are eligible personnel costs, if: (a)the person work under condition similar to those of an employee (in particular regarding the way the work is organised, the task that are performed and the premise where they are performed);(b)the result of the work carried out belongs to the beneficiary (unless exceptionally agreed otherwise), and(c)the cost are not significantly different from those for personnel performing similar task under an employment contract with the beneficiary. For the Twinning Direct Costs, eligibility criterion are specified in Grant Agreement 6.2 D.1: Travel cost and related subsistence allowances(including related duties, tax and charge such a non-deductible value added tax (VAT) paid by the beneficiary) are eligible if they are in line with the beneficiary usual practice on travel. Twinning Subcontracting can be used. Twinning Subcontracting is a fixed sum due on completion of the twinning activity and acceptance of the invoice for funding by the Commission. Twinning Subcontracting can cover not only subcontracting taking place for the twinning itself, but also other cost incurred by Originator and Adopter(s) which cannot be invoiced directly to the Acting Procurer either a Twinning Personnel or Twinning Direct Costs. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Twinnings DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly support thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solution in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings work and what can and ha already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. What are Twinnings? Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practice from one region to another. The approach ha been successfully tested in a number of EU project and studies, including the.The region that offer the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activity include the venture needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meeting or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fee for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solution by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solution with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fee for professional service not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contract with agreed activity and deliverables; regular reporting Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that support the Digital Single Markets three priority for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunity between more than 90 organisation will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE ha organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. Twinning Types Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It ha different condition for it budget, deployment timeframe, and the expert required.The five type range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly target local authorities: they can be authority that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other region in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discus a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and it transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopter (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopter is expected to be very similar. Well-established solution are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the content of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authority that wish to implement aspect of an originator innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, a well a the reason why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly target local authority with well established relation with other authority in Europe (e.g. through memorandum of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aim to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originator infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). Examples of type of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February May 2020)excludes Adaptation a a potential Twinning type. Twinning Success Stories The concept of twinnings ha already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success story from region around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning a part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning wa for Zagreb to learn about theand implement element of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced region in order to find digital solution related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experience of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategy in place. Andalusias more than 20 year of experience in eHealth system development and it elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that support the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administration thanks, among other things, to it cutting-edge service such a the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshop with primary care physician and ICT service provider in order to find the best way to implement the desired element in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care provider and health care workers.Healthcare service for complex patient have been improvedbased on example from Andalusia health service with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding result wa thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service foster collaboration between cure and care sector and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial saving for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of module which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module wa developed based on the twinning result Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred service couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indication that some solution could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solution is to showcase the benefit of the solution in small-scale pilot and communicate well on different level to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy. A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th 13th January 2017), a part of the 2016. Both region are recognised a 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 year to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia wa developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedure were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform ha been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and it design ha involved professional from the University. Among it users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the user path in the service wa analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demand of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipality that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic area of Scotland.Among the service available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, a well a the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspect to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 week with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform wa offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform wa not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 time more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gap to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform manager commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategy developed in collaboration with voluntary association and the third sector. Among the challenge for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate service and other service available in the community; stability in work team due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit wa to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project wa presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resource into a single repository to provide a unique access to the user history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendation for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting user about their needs, expectation and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the manager and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered user and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of it design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia. The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopter took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning wa to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other region and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristic and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective wa to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adult and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it ha been used in 15 different European country adapted to the different languages, culture and the legal system. Due to it success it is available today in 23 country and 17 language with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or region across Europe and 885 patient have been enrolled in the twinning. The result show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patient compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategy is suggested. Moreover, result show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include question that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90. Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partner were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and example of how becoming involved in collaborative activity might generate result to exploit at local level (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement ha been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional cluster ha been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor ha been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that ha been providing further element to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 project of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania a AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania ha been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and it Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aim to develop an inter-professional care model (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patient affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and us clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by user through the network of local health agency and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania ha been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subject with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that ha been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patient with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic property of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patient with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that support rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial video and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania ha been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflow in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania a OriginatorCampania ha been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided a a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patient at home, a if the patient wa still in the hospital. The data collected at the patient home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feed the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience ha been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issue (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practice that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative tie with EU region through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenue for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystem brings the added value of supporting region to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenge that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building block emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision. Twinning Marketplace Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offer an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender. The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance Twinning Results The result of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Results and Publications back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Support Services DigitalHealthEuropes main objective is supporting thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care.DHE ha designed, developed and successfully implemented several service targeting this objective: Successful digital health initiative catalogue The contains up-to-date 65 mature, highly impactful and replicable solution which are theresult of EU-funded project and initiativesthat address challenge related to the Digital Transformation of Health and Care policy priorities. The solution havehigh potential for scaling up and replicabilityacross Europe. Structured advice on EU funding instrument and financing source A ha been developed with relevant open call from Horizon Europe and EU4HealthThe provides a wide an open space for interested stakeholder to exchange idea about interesting calls, stimulate and build project consortia, find the right partnersDHE ha also collected and promoted , info day providing detailed explanation about the new funding programme and how to prepare a successful proposalThree event were organised to , between and successfully bidding public healthcare providers. MAFEIP analysis of highly impactful digital health intervention TheMonitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing(MAFEIP)offers socio-economic impact assessment support for evidence-based decision-making processes. MAFEIP ha successfully completed the and started the assessment with many others. If you are interested to have your intervention analysed, just contact the . Supporting demand and supply for scaling-up digital health and care solution Healthcare provider together with the private sector, ICT company were also offered aid for their scaling-up person-centred digital solutions. The mapped the strategic, technical, and operational barrier and provided recommendation on how to overcome them and mobilise investment in person-centred health care at various level between local and European. DHE twinnings DHE organised two call for twinning during the lifetime of the project (2020, 2021) to facilitate the scale-up of digital health and care solution between regions. were realised that spanned between knowledge transfer and full adoption/acquisition. DHE ha produced a twinning brochure outlining in a simple and concise way what twinning mean and giving a little flavour of the DHE twinning results.Inspiring summary about the twinning outcome are also shared on the . Capacity building DHE knowledge tree This knowledge tree is organised using the six key component of the Capacity Building Framework identified within the EU project. These have been sub-divided into twenty building blocks. The knowledge tree includes concrete resource collected from different project and initiative such a articles, videos, reports, brochures, etc. Digital Health Standards Digital Health Standards is a joint communication effort between the DigitalHealthEurope project, empirica and The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data to grow awareness about the importance of health ICT standards. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Resources DisclaimerDigitalHealthEuropeseeks to make public in a open and at an early stage of development a possible, material and report that can be useful resource for member of the public and stakeholder working in the field of digital transformation of health and care. We declare, however, that these are often material in development: they have not yet necessarily been officially reviewed and approved by European Commission officials. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu A portfolio of useful evidence of benefit for digitally-empowered patient As part of it work, DigitalHealthEurope is putting together a portfolio of case study offering evidence of benefit from digitally empowered patient (corresponding to Milestone 6 of the project).Before listing useful material that offer evidence of benefit for Europes digitally-empowered patients, it is good to understand:What is patient empowerment?What is digital health?What benefit accrue to digitally-empowered patients?What is patient empowermentPatient empowerment ha been defined a a multi-dimensional process that help people gain control over their own life and increase their capacity to act on issue that they themselves define a important. Collective empowerment is a process through which individual and community are able to express their needs, present their concerns, devise strategy for involvement in decision-making, and take political, social, and cultural action to meet those needs. (Adapted from work by the European Union Network for Patient Safety and Quality of Care [PASQ]).What is digital health and what doesit mean for patients?Digital health is a fast-developing area in which much of today activity is driven by technology or commercial concern rather than patient needs. EPF wish to position the patient community a a driver of innovation and start a debate on what patient need and want on a daily basis from the healthcare system and it organisation, and how technology should be serving these needs. As it is also a strategic priority for EPF for a decade now, in 2019, EPF ha launched the Working Group on Digital Health (DHWG), with the aim of developing EPFs overall strategy on digital health. Throughout the last decade EPF ha been involved in numerous EU-funded project and initiative on digital health thus bringing the patient perspective into these endeavours, but also shaping how the future healthcare service will look like.Recent work by DigitalHealthEuropeDigitalHealthEurope ha done a preliminary screening (a literature search). As a result, it ha gathered together some example of good practice and recommendation on patient empowerment and digital health. The portfolio of useful material includes some position paper and policy statement produced and developed by DigitalHealthEurope partners, like the European Patients Forum and others.This evidence strengthens positively the reason to produce these two outcome at the end of DigitalHealthEurope:A Guide for scaling up digital solution for citizen-healthcare professional interaction.This guide will act a an empowerment roadmap for healthcare provider or larger scale healthcare ecosystem to become more successful at engaging with patient and caregivers.A White paper on boosting active cooperation between patient and health and care providers.A portfolio of useful material back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP) The Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP)supportsevidence-based decision-making process for all institution and user in the EU health and care sector. It is a web-based tool whose purpose is to estimate the health and economic outcome of a large variety of ICT-enabled social andhealth innovations.The innovation includenew care pathways, devices, surgical techniques, and organisational models.In DigitalHealthEurope, MAFEIP is used bymanyorganisations to ass their impact and cost-effectiveness in order to show their high potential for scaling up and replicability across Europe.Explore the MAFEIP website, learn more about how the tool works,andfind outhow to join the MAFEIP user community!Come and meet u at. Status Solution or Good practice Project Description Finished i-PROGNOSIS is a project comprising a partnership made up of eleven academic institution and companies, from six EU countries, led by Aristotle University of Thessanloniki, Greece. The primary objective of i-PROGNOSIS is to provide an early detection of Parkinsons Disease through unobtrusive test based on everday interaction of user with their technological devices. Systematic test of the i-PROGNOSIS intervention in patient with Parkinsons Disease (PD) were carried out by three intervention pilot in: Greece (Thessaloniki), UK (London) and Germany (Dresden). Finished Do CHANGE is a project that ended in 2018 and wa tested in Spain, the Netherlands, and Taiwan, in addition to receiving funding under the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 programme. The objective of this project wa to develop a health ecosystem to provide citizen with high blood pressure and patient with ischemic disease or heart failure, an integrated disease management system. This system used new innovative wearable smart tool that scan the food and fluid consumed by the individual a well a monitored behavior in the individual living situation. Finished The main aim of the project BeyondSilos wa to enable the delivery of integrated care to older European citizen to support them to live independent life in the community by providing the ICT tool necessary to integrate care pathway across organisation and locations, in particular between social and health care providers.One of the key area of the integration wa to provide common access to home platform for all the crosssectorial care team in order to improve care coordination and, therefore, the continuity of care. Finished The United4Health project (U4H) tested telehealth service targeting the three main chronic disease found among the EU population: diabetes, COPD, and CHF. This case cover the telehealth service for patient living with COPD, which ha the aim to provide an alternative way to support self-management through the provision of an appropriate level of telemonitoring that is flexible and can respond with fluctuation in their health status and thus avoid future emergency hospital admission due to a COPD exacerbation. Finished Kinesis QTUG is a medical device that ass an older adult fall risk, frailty, and mobility with the objective to facilitate the accurate and early identification of patient at risk of falling. This would allow for a timely intervention, which could reduce the incidence of fallrelated injury and it associated costs. QTUG automatically analysis patient data and compare it with the reference value for the patient age and gender. Finished The main aim of CKD Integrated Care project that wa conducted in the Puglia area wa to address the need to reduce the level of dialysis taking place in hospitals, and thereby increase the amount of dialysis treatment at home. The goal of the project wa to increase quality of life for patient treated with haemodialysis, by increasing home care while reducing the cost of hospitalisation. Almost finished PERSSILAA (PERsonalised ICT Supported Service for Independent Living and Active Ageing) aim at the development and validation of a new service model that address frailty in community dwelling for older adults. PERSSILAAs main focus is to (1) develop remote service module for screening, monitoring and training, (2) enable a transition of care service from fragmented reactive disease management to preventive personalised services, that are offered locally, supported by proactive caregiver and health professionals, which are integrated into existing healthcare services, and (3) set up a technical service infrastructure to support these multiple service and user in an efficient, reliable and easy way which have been entailed gamification, interoperability and clinical decision support. Almost finished WithREHABILITY, patient can carry out theirrehabilitation exercise from either the centre in which they are hospitalised or remotely, autonomously but with medical supervision. This version is based on many year of scientific research with specific study instroke,Multiple SclerosisandParkinsons disease. In general, REHABILITYenables patient to carry out their personalised rehabilitation exercisesfrom the convenience and safety of their home. More than half-way ACTIVAGE is a European Multi Centric Large-Scale Pilot on Smart Living Environments, with the goal of building the first European Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystemto provide service that support and extend the independent living of older adult in their living environments, and respond to real need of caregivers, service provider and public authorities. The deployment pilot site located in Galicia, Spain wa chosen due to the high percentage of the elderly population (65+ years) and the high percentage of expenditure in the healthcare public sector, with respect to the region public budget. The use case deployed in Galicia, include the following: integrated care, emergency trigger, cognitive simulation, prevention of social isolation, and daily active monitoring at home. More than half-way The objective of the ACTIVAGE pilot project located in Valencia, is to create a real-life experiment deployment by providing informal caregiver information to understand the daily behaviour of elderly at home and outside. Using IoT solutions, this pilot deployment project provides 24-hour, continuous monitoring of elderly people. The pilot envisages continuous monitoring both in the home of the elderly, in addition to the monitoring of their well-being inside and outside the home in order to make the environment for elderly people safer, easier, and more helpful. More than half-way The ACTIVAGE pilot project, with the deployment location in Madrid, Spain, focus on the early detection and prevention of cognitive performance decrease a well a the risk of falling for elderly individuals. The Madrid deployment site achieves this by implementing an IoT system that transforms the living environment of a patient, both in and out of the home, into a smart living environment to non-intrusively monitoring the daily activity of elderly individuals. More than half-way The objective of the pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE located in Emilia Romagna, Italy, is to support independent life and ageing by reducing hospitalisation and increasing physical resource utilisation through the monitoring of essential daily activity of elderly individuals. This pilot population is specifically narrowed to mainly elderly individual who are recovering from a stroke event and are still suffering from the after-effects of strokes, although they do not strictly require institutionalization. More than half-way The large-scale Greek pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE promotes a four-fold objective. Firstly, the project promotes Silver Economy policy initiative on eHealth, active and health ageing, senior tourism, and age-friendly housing. The second objective is to encourage elderly individual to live independently at home a long a possible, in a health way, through better prevention, community-based solutions, and innovative home care. Next, this Greek pilot boost innovation by accelerating the development of information and communication technology (ICT) service for the elderly community. Finally, the fourth objective is to support the autonomy of elderly people living on their own by supporting demand-driven solution through quality and sustainable welfare systems. More than half-way The ACTIVAGE pilot project, with the deployment location in Isre, France, focus on providing care that combine human and technical assistance, which bridge the different moment in an elderly individual life to limit the loss of autonomy and avoid unnecessary re-hospitalization. The way this is promoted is through daily active monitoring through smart home environments, emergency trigger that detect pattern or event requiring immediate attention, exercise promotion to prevent situation such a falls, social participation through monitoring the interaction and communication with different people, and finally, the safety, comfort, and security at home through the management of sensor and actuators. Half-way The objective of the pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE located in Germany is to implement an open, extensible system that is replicable and affordable and provides assistance at home and monitoring in nursing home with automatic, emergency situation recognition software and handling. The German state is investing in buildings, for elderly people, that are equipped with AAL technology which allows for monitoring and IoT infrastructure. Half-way Leeds, England ha a rising elderly population (65+ years) and a welcoming view towards innovation. It is also the deployment site for ACTIVAGE, with the objective at this site to create a single platform for the elderly, informal and formal caretakers, and health care professionals, and healthy ageing at home by enabling remote monitoring, emergency triggers, and risk identification. The two main use case for this deployment site are independent living support and personal health and symptom monitoring. The Leeds deployment site aim to implement energy monitoring equipment along with home sensor a well a smart watches. This provides service around fall detection, remote monitoring of vital health stats, and non-intrusive behaviour detection system through daily active monitoring at home. Furthermore, this project aim to reduce social isolation by facilitating connection through technology and early intervention. Half-way The objective of the pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE located in Finland, are to improve the quality of life for elderly individual and allow them to live independently with more security a well a increase the physical activity of elderly individual who are at risk of falling. The objective of independent living is supported by introducing IoT based monitoring of daily activity of elderly individual at home for self-management and for both informal and formal care giver support. This deployment site also strives to implement integrated care by integrating home care service of the municipality with support of the informal caregiver of the elderly individuals. Regarding the objective of increasing physical activity to prevent falls, exercise is promoted through different option such a gamified physiotherapy, effective rehabilitation with digitalisation. Half-way The purpose of this study wa to conduct a multi-centre randomised controlled trial with patient diagnosed with an eating disorder. In this experiment, the patient from the experimental group have tested an mHealth application (TCApp developed by HealthApp) and then, a clinical efficacy analysis evaluation wa performed. It wa expected that the implementation of the intensive intervention program with the TCApp would allow an increased improvement of the symptom related to the eating disorder among patient and also would lead to improvement of several secondary outcomes, such a anxiety, depression and quality of life of both patient and their caregivers. The preliminary result showed that the TCApp is not more effective than regular therapy, both intervention showed an effect on multiple outcomes. In addition, it wa expected that the implementation of the intensive treatment with the TCApp by the experimental group would be more cost-effective compared to the control group. Currently, the cost-effectiveness is being analysed. Half-way The telehealth service for patient after AMI and on anticoagulation treatment introduces remote monitoring of elderly patient who are hospitalised for acute infarct of myocardium (AMI) in case of newly diagnosed (or until then unknown diagnosis of) diabetes using telehealth service and patient on anticoagulation treatment. The patient are telemonitored for AMI relapse, unstable angina pectoris and need of further interventional or chirurgic revascularization. The purpose of the current practice is to support patient at home, early detection of frequent comorbidity (diabetes) and respond to unwanted development of patient on anticoagulation regime. Started The telehomecare Project wa started to monitor from home patient with chronic diseases; the aim is to reduce hospital admission and the length of bed-days in the hospital. The activity include the involvement of hospital specialists, family doctor and professional working in the area. At any time and in any place the doctor can monitor and communicate with the patient who is cared for from home. The project ha also generated a psychological improvement of patient health and wellbeing. Through the use of an innovative technology called hospital at home all main physiological parameter of patient are monitored. Started HappyAiris aSmart Communityfor the integral care of patient with chronic or rare respiratory disease such a Asthma, COPD or Alpha-1. The HappyAir community provides online and offline training and resource in digital health and social care to patients, family, caregivers, healthcare professional and researchers. Using the platform, all member are able to connect in order to improve the health and well-being of patients, learn to manage self-care, ensure an active lifestyle, and contribute to the development of current and future research projects. Started Carealia brings affordable, highly efficient interconnected device in everyday healthcare. In the era of Internet of Things, the solution integrate a wide selection of wearable and ambient devices, allowing information exchange and interpretation. While most healthcare solution focus on a single aspect, such a sleep or physical activity, Carealia monitor and combine multiple life aspect in one place, providing clinician with a holistic picture of behavioural pattern and symptoms. The solution have been shown to aid in the assessment and personalised care of dementia. Started vCare is an H2020 European project that aim to provide a smart coaching solution grounded on personalized care pathways. vCare stand for Virtual Coaching activity for rehabilitation in elderly and aim at an improved rehabilitation for people a they age, designing personalised rehabilitation programme that will lead to better continuity of care and a better quality of life for patient who use an advanced virtual coaching system. vCare is exploring how data from at least three source the living environment, health information, and regular interaction with affected patient can be linked intelligently to make certain that patient experience a personalised transition from clinical rehabilitation in the hospital back to home. The project started in 2017 and will end in 2021. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu The European Innovation Partnership in Active and Healthy Ageing (EIP on AHA) is an initiative launched by the European Commission to foster innovation and digital transformation in the field of active and healthy ageing. Its overarching target is to increase the average healthy lifespan of EU citizen by 2 year by the year 2020.The EIP on AHA pursues a Triple Win for Europe:Improving the health and quality of life of Europeans with a focus on older people;Supporting the long-term sustainability and efficiency of health and social care systems;Enhancing the competitiveness of EU industry through business and expansion in new market The Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP) intends to support evidence-based decision-making process for all institution and user in the EU health and care sector. It is a web-based tool whose purpose is to estimate the health and economic outcome of a large variety of ICT enabled social and health innovations, including new care pathways, devices, surgical techniques, and organisational models, among others. The European Blueprint on Digital Transformation of Health and Care for the Ageing Society reflects the common policy vision of European policy makers, civil society, professional organisation and industry.As a shared policy vision, the Blueprint guide the effort of the EIP on AHA Action Groups and Reference Sites. The Blueprint is essential to mobilise investment and guarantee the commitment of all actor including industrial players, regional authorities, professional and civil society organisation and multi-stakeholder platforms. The purpose of the Innovation to Market (I2M) initiative is to improve the match between the demand side and supply side in AHA, by engaging in a dialogue and organising a series of activity and service that involve the two side of the market. On April 25th 2018, the European Commission published a Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of Regions on enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market; empowering citizen and building a healthier society. The internet and digital technology are transforming our world. Barriers online can deny people the full benefit that digital development can offer.Making the EUs single market fit for the digital age requires tearing down unnecessary regulatory barrier and moving from individual national market to one single EU-wide rulebook.The Digital Single Market designates the strategy of the European Commission for the best possible access to the online world for individual and businesses.ADigital Single Market (DSM)is one in which the free movement of persons, service and capital is ensured and where the individual and business can seamlessly access and engage in online activity under condition of fair competition, and a high level of consumer and personal data protection, irrespective of their nationality or place of residence. The eHealth Network wa established under Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Union. It is envisioned a a voluntary network connecting national authority responsible for eHealth designated by the Member States. The purpose of the eHealth Network is to support and facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information among Member States. eHAction is a Joint Action supporting the eHealth Network. It is a collaborative action between Member States/ Countries (MS/C) participating in the third Health Programme to develop, share, refine, test tools, method and approach to specific issue or activity and engage in capacity building in key area of interest. Joint Actions have a clear EU added value and are co-financed by European Commission and MS authority that are responsible for health. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu DigitalHealthEurope Funding Database The DigitalHealthEurope project aim to support the stakeholder active in the digital health field with up-to-date information about funding opportunity to realise their idea and scale-up their innovation in partnership with other European stakeholders. With the new Horizon Europe, Digital Europe, EU4Health programme being published in 2021, we have made a collection of relevant call targeting research about person-centred digital and/or data-driven solutions, their development and deployment. The database is structured around the three priority of the digital transformation of health and care. It includes information about the programme, the budget, the submission deadline and it also allows real-time searching across the open call by keywords. The DigitalHealthEurope project did not only produce a database of relevant funding, but it also offer service based on this collection. Find out more about related services: You might also be interested in the following webinars: back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Glossary back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Get involved! Stakeholder engagement and dialogue are seen a crucial for the success of the Support DigitalHealthEurope provides.We encourage you to get involved!There are numerous way stakeholder can be involved in DigitalHealthEurope:Applying forfunding fortwinnings to teach or learn from another region digital tool for person-centred integrated careParticipating in the three Multistakeholder community to help shape the European Commissions agenda regarding the three DSM priority for health and care.Multistakeholder community on citizen secure access to and sharing of health dataMultistakeholder community on better data to promote research, disease prevention, personalised health and careMultistakeholder community on digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred careParticipation may include include being invited to relevant events, providing expert opinion via survey and interviews, etc.By filling in the form below, you ensure that you will be kept up-to-date on DigitalHealthEurope engagement opportunity and news. Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name Organisation Phone Number Country United States of America Aaland Islands Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua And Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and Mc Donald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey (Channel Islands) Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of Kosovo Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa (Independent) San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Helena St. Pierre and Miquelon Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks & Caicos Islands Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay USA Minor Outlying Islands Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State (Holy See) Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe I am interested in activity related to ... the project a a whole (incl. twinnings, building block for person-centred care, etc.) collaboration platform on citizens' secure access to and sharing of health data collab. platform on better data to promote research, disease prevention,personalised health and care collab. platform on digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care Permissions Please select all the way you would like to hear from DHE: Email You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. For information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. We use Mailchimp a our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu DigitalHealthEuropeSupport to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single MarketDigital Solutions for Health and Care Management in Times of CoronavirusA catalogue of mature telehealth solution which enable remote/tele-monitoring, ePrescribing and other remotely managed service during the COVID-19 pandemic. Better Implementation of Data Infrastructures and Secondary Uses of Health DataA DigitalHealthEurope White Paper explores the evolving European and national landscape of health data-sharing for care and for researchDigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solution supporting the digital transformation of health and careBrowse the database of 65 mature digital solution resulting from EU-funded project and initiative that address challenge related to key policy priorities.Scaling up of Digitally-enabled Health and Care Solutions via TwinningsFind out more about the ongoing DigitalHealthEurope Twinnings awarded funding a a result of the DHE Calls for Twinnings. Previous slide Next slide DigitalHealthEurope recommendation on the European Health Data Space Supporting responsible health data sharing and use through governance, policy and practiceAfter almost two year of intense consultation with nearly 140 stakeholder and expert from diverse areas, DigitalHealthEurope ha developed proposal for regulatory action, policy and strategy, a well a further action of support to enable responsible health data sharing and use. These recommendation are directed towards the envisioned European Health Data Space (EHDS), which the European Commission will define in a specific legal framework until the end of 2021. Aim of the EHDS is to facilitate the sharing and us of Real World Health Data within and especially beyond healthcare.In this context, DigitalHealthEurope present 32 actionable recommendation addressing three significant transition challenge for the EHDS:From privacy protection to citizen protection.From citizen a data subject to citizen a key change agent in the health data ecosystem.From policy and regulatory framework to engagement, adoption and implementation. 49 Empowering citizen and building a healthier society through digital health DigitalHealthEurope will providecomprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The project approach involves a number of action that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priority for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), a outlined in the European Commissions 2018on the topic. The priority concern: citizen secure access to and sharing of health data across border better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care digital tool for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offer two form of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020. Support to large scale deployment of digital solution for person-centred integrated care DigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tool will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instrument and financing sources. The selected initiative will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instrument such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisation will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklist and documented successful approaches. These result will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lesson learned. Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder community DigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These community directly address the three priorities.Each of the community will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated expert and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcome such a white papers, guideline and policy recommendations. DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The result will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended actions. Latest News There are many digitally enabled health and care solution and practice developed a part of Europe research & innovation projects, national funding programmes, private undertakings, competitions, etc., but it is oftentimes difficult to get Dementia and moderate cognitive impairment are some of the most common challenge faced by older citizens. Kwido Mementia ha become a result of the twinning cooperation between Ideable Solutions, Spain (twinning originator) and the Video explaining the adoption of the Social-Health Folder twinning aimed at digitalisation of healthcare administration and management. During the course of it action, the Digital Health Europe (DHE) project ha produced numerous valuable outputs, including white paper and recommendations, the DHE forum, collection of useful resource for people working in the Tweets back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Contact First Name (required) Surname (required) Academic Title Organisation Position within organisation e-Mail Address (required) Subject (required) Message (required) You agree that your data will be used to process your request. For more information and disclaimer, see the back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Privacy Statement (EU) This privacy statement wa last updated on October 31, 2022 and applies to citizen and legal permanent resident of the European Economic Area and Switzerland.In this privacy statement, we explain what we do with the data we obtain about you via . We recommend you carefully read this statement. In our processing we comply with the requirement of privacy legislation. That means, among other things, that: we clearly state the purpose for which we process personal data. We do this by mean of this privacy statement; we aim to limit our collection of personal data to only the personal data required for legitimate purposes; we first request your explicit consent to process your personal data in case requiring your consent; we take appropriate security measure to protect your personal data and also require this from party that process personal data on our behalf; we respect your right to access your personal data or have it corrected or deleted, at your request. If you have any questions, or want to know exactly what data we keep of you, please contact us.1. Purpose, data and retention periodWe may collect or receive personal information for a number of purpose connected with our business operation which may include the following: (click to expand)1.1 Contact - Through phone, mail, email and/or webformsFor this purpose we use the following data:A first and last nameA home or other physical address, including street name and name of a city or townAn email addressIP AddressInternet activity information, including, but not limited to, browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer's interaction with an Internet Web site, application, or advertisementThe basis on which we may process these data is:Retention periodWe retain this data until the service is terminated.1.2 NewslettersFor this purpose we use the following data:A first and last nameA home or other physical address, including street name and name of a city or townAn email addressIP AddressGeolocation dataA telephone numberThe basis on which we may process these data is:Retention periodWe retain this data until the service is terminated.1.3 Compiling and analyzing statistic for website improvement.For this purpose we use the following data:IP AddressGeolocation dataInternet activity information, including, but not limited to, browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer's interaction with an Internet Web site, application, or advertisementThe basis on which we may process these data is:Retention periodWe retain this data until the service is terminated.2. CookiesOur website us cookies. For more information about cookies, please refer to our .3. Disclosure practicesWe disclose personal information if we are required by law or by a court order, in response to a law enforcement agency, to the extent permitted under other provision of law, to provide information, or for an investigation on a matter related to public safety.If our website or organisation is taken over, sold, or involved in a merger or acquisition, your detail may be disclosed to our adviser and any prospective purchaser and will be passed on to the new owners.4. SecurityWe are committed to the security of personal data. We take appropriate security measure to limit abuse of and unauthorised access to personal data. This ensures that only the necessary person have access to your data, that access to the data is protected, and that our security measure are regularly reviewed.5. Third-party websitesThis privacy statement doe not apply to third-party website connected by link on our website. We cannot guarantee that these third party handle your personal data in a reliable or secure manner. We recommend you read the privacy statement of these website prior to making use of these websites.6. Amendments to this privacy statementWe reserve the right to make amendment to this privacy statement. It is recommended that you consult this privacy statement regularly in order to be aware of any changes. In addition, we will actively inform you wherever possible.7. Accessing and modifying your dataIf you have any question or want to know which personal data we have about you, please contact us. You can contact u by using the information below. You have the following rights: You have the right to know why your personal data is needed, what will happen to it, and how long it will be retained for. Right of access: You have the right to access your personal data that is known to us. Right to rectification: you have the right to supplement, correct, have deleted or blocked your personal data whenever you wish. If you give u your consent to process your data, you have the right to revoke that consent and to have your personal data deleted. Right to transfer your data: you have the right to request all your personal data from the controller and transfer it in it entirety to another controller. Right to object: you may object to the processing of your data. We comply with this, unless there are justified ground for processing. Please make sure to always clearly state who you are, so that we can be certain that we do not modify or delete any data of the wrong person.8. Submitting a complaintIf you are not satisfied with the way in which we handle (a complaint about) the processing of your personal data, you have the right to submit a complaint to the Data Protection Authority.9. Contact detailsempirica Gesellschaft fr Kommunikations- und Technologieforschung mbH Oxfordstr. 2 D-53111 Bonn Germany Germany Website: Email: info@empirica.com Phone number: +49-228-98530-0 back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny Preferences Save preference Manage consent Menu Cookie Policy (EU) This Cookie Policy wa last updated on October 31, 2022 and applies to citizen and legal permanent resident of the European Economic Area and Switzerland.1. IntroductionOur website, (hereinafter: "the website") us cooky and other related technology (for convenience all technology are referred to a "cookies"). Cookies are also placed by third party we have engaged. In the document below we inform you about the use of cooky on our website.2. What are cookies?A cookie is a small simple file that is sent along with page of this website and stored by your browser on the hard drive of your computer or another device. The information stored therein may be returned to our server or to the server of the relevant third party during a subsequent visit.3. What are scripts?A script is a piece of program code that is used to make our website function properly and interactively. This code is executed on our server or on your device.4. What is a web beacon?A web beacon (or a pixel tag) is a small, invisible piece of text or image on a website that is used to monitor traffic on a website. In order to do this, various data about you is stored using web beacons.5. Cookies5.1 Technical or functional cookiesSome cooky ensure that certain part of the website work properly and that your user preference remain known. By placing functional cookies, we make it easier for you to visit our website. This way, you do not need to repeatedly enter the same information when visiting our website and, for example, the item remain in your shopping cart until you have paid. We may place these cooky without your consent.5.2 Statistics cookiesWe use statistic cooky to optimise the website experience for our users. With these statistic cooky we get insight in the usage of our website.We ask your permission to place statistic cookies.5.3 Marketing/Tracking cookiesMarketing/Tracking cooky are cooky or any other form of local storage, used to create user profile to display advertising or to track the user on this website or across several website for similar marketing purposes.5.4 Social mediaOn our website, we have included content from Twitter to promote web page (e.g. like, pin) or share (e.g. tweet) on social network like Twitter. This content is embedded with code derived from Twitter and place cookies. This content might store and process certain information for personalised advertising.Please read the privacy statement of these social network (which can change regularly) to read what they do with your (personal) data which they process using these cookies. The data that is retrieved is anonymised a much a possible. Twitter is located in the United States.6. Placed cooky Google reCAPTCHA Functional, Marketing/Tracking Consent to service google-recaptcha Usage We use Google reCAPTCHA for spam prevention. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Functional Name Expiration session Function Provide spam protection Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration session Function Read and filter request from bot Name Expiration session Function Read and filter request from bot Name Expiration persistent Function Read and filter request from bot Elementor Statistics (anonymous) Consent to service elementor Usage We use Elementor for content creation. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties. Statistics (anonymous) Name Expiration persistent Function Store performed action on the website WordPress Functional Consent to service wordpress Usage We use WordPress for website development. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties. Functional Name Expiration session Function Read if cooky can be placed Name Expiration persistent Function Store logged in user Name Expiration session Function Store language setting Matomo Statistics (anonymous), Functional Consent to service matomo Usage We use Matomo for website statistics. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties. Statistics (anonymous) Name Expiration 13 month Function Store a unique user ID Name Expiration session Function Store a unique session ID Name Expiration 6 month Function Store referrer ID's Functional Name Expiration session Function Provide fraud prevention Complianz Functional Consent to service complianz Usage We use Complianz for cookie consent management. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties.For more information, please read the . Functional Name Expiration 365 day Function Store if a message ha been dismissed Name Expiration 365 day Function Store accepted cookie policy ID Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Read to determine which cookie banner to show Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store if the cookie banner ha been dismissed YouTube Marketing/Tracking, Functional Consent to service youtube Usage We use YouTube for video display. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration session Function Store location data Name Expiration session Function Store and track interaction Name Expiration 8 month Function Store user preference Functional Name Expiration 6 month Function Provide bandwidth estimation Twitter Functional, Marketing/Tracking Consent to service twitter Usage We use Twitter for display of recent social post and/or social share buttons. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Functional Name Expiration persistent Function Provide load balancing functionality Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Miscellaneous Purpose pending investigation Consent to service miscellaneous Usage Sharing data Sharing of data is pending investigation Purpose pending investigation Name Expiration Function Name mtm_cookie_consent Expiration Function Name acf Expiration Function Name wpEmojiSettingsSupports Expiration Function Name e_kit-elements-defaults Expiration Function Name 926llh13 Expiration Function Name 7yijv1ne Expiration Function Name 1okdbliv Expiration Function Name kftq6zsi Expiration Function Name l6h13mtx Expiration Function 7. ConsentWhen you visit our website for the first time, we will show you a pop-up with an explanation about cookies. As soon a you click on "Save preferences", you consent to u using the category of cooky and plug-in you selected in the pop-up, a described in this Cookie Policy. You can disable the use of cooky via your browser, but please note that our website may no longer work properly.7.1 Manage your consent settingsYou have loaded the Cookie Policy without javascript support.On AMP, you can use the manage consent button on the bottom of the page.8. Enabling/disabling and deleting cookiesYou can use your internet browser to automatically or manually delete cookies. You can also specify that certain cooky may not be placed. Another option is to change the setting of your internet browser so that you receive a message each time a cookie is placed. For more information about these options, please refer to the instruction in the Help section of your browser.Please note that our website may not work properly if all cooky are disabled. If you do delete the cooky in your browser, they will be placed again after your consent when you visit our website again.9. Your right with respect to personal dataYou have the following right with respect to your personal data: You have the right to know why your personal data is needed, what will happen to it, and how long it will be retained for. Right of access: You have the right to access your personal data that is known to us. Right to rectification: you have the right to supplement, correct, have deleted or blocked your personal data whenever you wish. If you give u your consent to process your data, you have the right to revoke that consent and to have your personal data deleted. Right to transfer your data: you have the right to request all your personal data from the controller and transfer it in it entirety to another controller. Right to object: you may object to the processing of your data. We comply with this, unless there are justified ground for processing. To exercise these rights, please contact us. Please refer to the contact detail at the bottom of this Cookie Policy. If you have a complaint about how we handle your data, we would like to hear from you, but you also have the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority (the Data Protection Authority).10. Contact detailsFor question and/or comment about our Cookie Policy and this statement, please contact u by using the following contact details:empirica Gesellschaft fr Kommunikations- und Technologieforschung mbH Oxfordstr. 2 D-53111 Bonn Germany Germany Website: Email: info@empirica.com Phone number: +49-228-98530-0This Cookie Policy wa synchronised with on May 3, 2024. back to top This project ha received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353. empirica 2024. All right reserved.