nonprofit organization with a clear mission statement: To save the life of patient with blood cancer and other lifethreatening disease by advancing the field of blood and marrow transplantation and cell therapy worldwide through science, education and advocacy. They have a registry, which wa established in 1974. Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu A unique registry. A vibrant scientific community. Fighting life-threatening blood cancer and disease and improving patients' lives. Science Education Patient Care EBMT Become a Member of the EBMT and gain access to the only database of it kind in Europe EBMT News Highlights Patient Care & Donor Information Access a variety of material and information compiled with patient and donor in mind. Fast Facts Patients 702,579 In the Registry Transplants 826,418 In the Registry Patients treated with CAR T-cells 5,000+ in the Registry Accreditations 214 JACIE-accredited centre EBMT Partners Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu A unique registry. A vibrant scientific community. Fighting life-threatening blood cancer and disease and improving patients' lives. Science Education Patient Care EBMT Become a Member of the EBMT and gain access to the only database of it kind in Europe EBMT News Highlights Patient Care & Donor Information Access a variety of material and information compiled with patient and donor in mind. Fast Facts Patients 702,579 In the Registry Transplants 826,418 In the Registry Patients treated with CAR T-cells 5,000+ in the Registry Accreditations 214 JACIE-accredited centre EBMT Partners Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Primary tab Username Enter your EBMT username. Password Enter the password that accompanies your username. Please, choose your service provider. Service provider - Select -MembershipEBMT Organization Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Search Follow on Twitter Event landing menu Toggle main menu visibility 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT 14-17 April 2024 | Glasgow Celebrating 50 Years of Community Attendance at the 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT in 2024 is your opportunity to connect with cutting-edge scientific content related to transplantation and cellular therapy, network with thousand of top healthcare professional from all over the world, and celebrate the remarkable achievement of the European and international transplant community over the past 50 years.... Join our Scientific Community in Glasgow The Annual Meeting of the EBMT is a congress for all those involved in the care of transplant and cellular therapy patients. There will be dedicated session for physicians, nurses, data managers, statisticians, quality managers, cell therapists, paediatricians, pharmacists, psychologists, psychiatrist and psychoanalysts, transplant coordinators, lab scientists, trainees, and patients. 5,500+ Expected Attendees 1,000+ Abstract Submissions 100+ Countries Represented Rewatch the Congress On-Demand until June Missed a session or presentation? Unlock the On-Demand Content from the 50th Annual Meeting and watch the recording via the Virtual Meeting Platform or the EBMT 2024 Appuntil 17 June 2024 at 23:59 CEST. Download the Official EBMT 2024 App The EBMT 2024 App is the best tool to help you enjoy our 50th Annual Meeting from your mobile device. Click below to download it from the Apple App and Google Play stores! Explore the Scientific Programme The Local Organising Committee, together with the EBMT Scientific Council, ha designed an outstanding programme to cover key issue relating to HCT and cellular therapy research. Watch EBMT TV's Daily Episodes and Interviews EBMT TV produced daily episode from the 50th Annual Meeting featuring conference news and in-depth report in collaboration with the international film and broadcasting company WebsEdge. Visit EBMTs YouTube channel (@TheEBMT) to watch all the episode and interviews. Learn more about our Annual Meeting The Annual Meeting of the EBMT ha a rich history of over 49 years. We will celebrate the 50th anniversary of our Annual Meeting in Glasgow at the Scottish Event Campus. Learn more about the congress venue and the Annual Meeting by clicking below. Quick Links Read the latest EBMT 2024 news Certificate of Attendance and CME Points Certificate of Attendance The Certificate of Attendance will be available within the Virtual Meeting Platform after the and sent via email to all all participant who attended the congress on the final day of the 50th Annual Meeting (Wednesday, 17 April 2024). In order to download your Certificate of Attendance, we kindlyask you to complete our short satisfaction survey. We recommend that you complete the survey using a computer in order to download the Certificate of Attendance successfully. EBMT can only issue certificate for the last five editions. For more information, contact secretariat@ebmt.org CME Accrediation The programme of the 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT, to be held in Glasgow, United Kingdom, from 14 - 17 April, 2024, ha been reviewed andapprovedfor CME accreditation by the European Board for Accreditation in Hematology (EBAH) CME Unit. The EBAH-CME Unit ha approved this educational activity for a maximum number of26.5EBAH-CMEcredit pointsand the time spent by the participant in the educational activity will be tracked for this purpose. All participant may print an EBAH-CME certificate, indicating the number of EBAH-CME credit point awarded, directly from the CME section of the EBAH website at. EBMT certifies that the content of this CME event are without advertisement and that the content are presented scientifically and neutral. We certify that speaker and author disclose potential conflict of interest appropriately. Watch the On-Demand Content from the 50th Annual Meeting and watch the recording via the Virtual Meeting Platform or the EBMT 2024 App. Thank you for your interest in our 50th anniversary! Please note that some session and presentation are pending review and that some speaker may not consent to the publication of their content on-demand. The platform and the on-demand content will remain available until 17 June 2024 at 23:59 CEST. Download the Official Annual Meeting App It is the best tool to help you plan each day at our 50th Annual Meeting. From inside the app you can access the virtual meeting platform a well as: Easily save session to create your own personal daily agenda. Receive reminder for upcoming presentations. Browse through the scientific programme, ePosters, faculty, exhibitors, sponsors, floor plan and more! Post Your Memories on Social Media with #EBMT24 Share your favourite moment from the 50th Annual Meetingand add to the conversation on social media! Include #EBMT24 and tag @TheEBMT in your posts. Check out Meeting Organisers EBMT Executive Office +34 93 453 8570 CME Congresses Useful Links Stay Updated Subscribe to our News & Updates list to get the latest information about our 50th Annual Meeting and other EBMT news and events. 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb The EBMT Registry The EBMT Registry, established in 1974, is the backbone of the EBMTs research and educational activities. It provides a pool of data to haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) healthcare professional to perform studies, ass epidemiological trends, and ultimately improve the care of patient with haematological malignancy and other life-threatening disorders. As of 2023, the EBMT Registry ha acquired data on over 700,000 patient that received an HCT procedure a well a data on over 4,000 patient that received CAR T-cell therapy. All thanks to the reporting done by our members, who in order to retain full EBMT membership status, they must report all consecutive HCTs each year. The EBMT Registry contains patient clinical data, including aspect of the diagnosis and disease, first-line treatments, HCT or cell-therapy-associated procedures, transplant type, donor type, stem cell source, complication and outcome. Patients are followed up indefinitely. Basic donor information is included with these procedures, and donor follow-up data can be entered by the transplant centre (or Donor Registry, for unrelated donors). All EBMT Registry study are performed under the supervision of the EBMT Working Parties. EBMT Membership EBMT member centre have access to the EBMT Registry. Find out how your centre can become a member of the EBMT. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Working Parties The 11 Working Parties are body whose mission is to implement the EBMT's Scientific and Educational policies. Together with the Data Offices, they develop and manage scientific proposals, and they also contribute to the definition of guideline and policies. With the support of the Executive Office, the Working Parties are the key driver and developer of the educational activity offered by the EBMT. The majority of the Parties are disease-based, but there are also several transversal group who cover multiple diseases. Learn more about each of the Working Parties by clicking the link below. If you are interested in the work of the Nurses Research Group, click on the link at the bottom of the page. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb JACIE Accreditation The Joint Accreditation Committee ISCT-Europe & EBMT (JACIE) is Europes only official accreditation body in the field of haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and cellular therapy (CT). It promotes high-quality patient care and medical and laboratory practice through a profession-led, voluntary accreditation scheme. JACIE activity since 2002 Total initial application 511 for accreditation Total inspection 395 for initial accreditation Total inspection 377 for reaccreditation Countries: Centres from 35 country have applied Current valid accreditation 256 awarded to institution Inspections in preparation 149 . What we do Members of EBMT are eligible for a 50% discount on accreditation fee JACIE News Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb COVID-19 and BMT In the context of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the EBMT ha set up this section to provide you with an array of useful information and resources. EBMT Recommendations Due to fast spreading of SARS-CoV-2 a panel of expert of EBMT recommends the following guideline for transplant units, recipients, and donor of hematopoietic cells. These guideline will be updated when new information is obtained about COVID-19 epidemiology and clinical outcome. Working Parties' recommendation working party download Infectious Diseases Working Party Recommendations regarding pre-therapy positivity for SARS-CoV-2 Severe Aplastic Anemia Working Party Autoimmune Diseases Working Party; Infectious Diseases Working Party; Paediatric Diseases Working Party; JACIE Committee; Nurses Group; Patient Advocacy Committee Acute Leukaemia Working Party EBMT COVID-19 Task Force The EBMT COVID-19 Task Force wa created to support patient and the EBMT Community throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Their goal is to tackle the different aspect of the pandemic: infectious issues, other non-infectious complications, donor and organisational issues, organisation of outpatient clinic and ward including medical and nursing activities, quality (JACIE) and educational activities. The structure of the Task Force consists of transversal participation across the different EBMT Groups and Committees. Two coordinator and the IDWP chair will be leading the group, along with representative from the: Executive Committee representative IDWP and TCWP Working Parties Chairs since the complication of SARS-CoV-2 implicate these two WPs directly All additional WP Chairs from the ALWP, CTIWP, LWP, CMWP, ADWP, IEWP, SAAWP and PDWP JACIE Committee Nurses Group Executive Office representative for education activity Donor Outcomes Committee COVID-19 Task Force Studies Publications JACIE FAQ COVID-19 and implication for accreditation process Our inspection wa scheduled and then cancelled when COVID-19 interrupted normal services. When will our inspection be rescheduled? We will not be scheduling on-site inspection until it is safe to return to on-site visits. JACIE continues to monitor the situation and we have recently started to reach out to inspector and our network of national representative to ass condition in those country where centre are preparing for accreditation. We are working on the basis of being able to resume at least some activity in the autumn and to give ourselves and our user a horizon on which to fix. Needless to say, the safety of our volunteer inspector is our priority and their willingness to travel and availability will be key to being able to form team and agree date with the centres. For that reason, we kindly ask centre for flexibility and patience in this complex task of reactivation and to support the inspector with all necessary safety measures. In the case of those cancelled inspections, JACIE will make every effort to assign the same inspection team a inspector will have already made preparation for the on-site visit. We are in the pre-inspection phase of the accreditation process. What should we do? Centres should continue to submit document and maintain correspondence with their assigned Accreditation Coordinator. Accreditation Coordinators are available by email or teleconference (on request) to assist you. JACIE understands that the situation will affect centre preparation and can offer flexibility with regard to timeline so please notify your Coordinator when you anticipate delays. Note that where process take longer than expected, centre may be asked to update information provided earlier and to provide any updated version of documentation in order for inspector to have the most recent information and related files. What happens if our accreditation expires? Centres whose accreditation expired after 31 March 2020 automatically received a 12-month extension of this accreditation cycle and were notified in early April by email. Accreditations that had already expired before 1 April 2020 were not extended. Those centre that have submitted an application for accreditation are listed a "In Process" in a separate list from the Accredited centres. This is referred to a "coverage", a term limited to acknowledging that a given centre is in the accreditation process without having yet achieved accreditation. A letter to this effect can be requested by the centre by writing to . The JACIE website is the official source of the list of Accredited Centres and Centres in Process. See www.ebmt.org/jacie-accredited-centres for details. In some cases, a centre may appear in both list because their most recent accreditation is still in force AND they have submitted an application to renew their accreditation e.g. accreditation expiring in December 2020 and application for reaccreditation submitted in December 2019. It is up to the centre if they wish to proceed with their new application. In any case, JACIE encourages early application for reaccreditation (at least 12 month before expiry and earlier if possible) to avoid or minimise gap between accreditations. Centres with expired accreditation award are not listed. A letter confirmed previous accreditation award can be provided upon request. Due to the pandemic, we have had to make temporary change to our set-up and processes. What do we need to report to JACIE? JACIE is aware that centre may have to move patient or change service temporarily due to the current extraordinary circumstances. These change do not require immediate reporting nor JACIE approval. Nonetheless, such change occurring in centre currently accredited should be reported to JACIE a soon a possible using the Changes affecting Accreditation Report document found at https://www.ebmt.org/ebmt/documents/changes-affecting-accreditation-report. These report will be provided to inspector at the next inspection. Centres should apply quality management principle to these change including a risk assessment with appropriate mitigation of any identified risk to the extent possible. By definition, these change represent deviation from normal procedure and practice and so should follow internal process for planning and approving or for reporting and documenting when unplanned. Standards B/C/D4.12 and B/CM/C/D5.7 apply. Regarding change to patient care, centre are directed to the EBMT COVID-19 resource page where guidance and recommendation by EBMT and other organisation are collated. See I am already accredited. When should I receive my certificate ? Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, activity in the JACIE office have been affected. It is not currently possible to print the certificate on our official stamped paper. This is expected to be resolved in the coming week when staff can return to the office. A PDF accreditation letter will be provided by email in the meantime. Please contact your Accreditation Coordinator with all requests. My centre ha been already inspected and we are waiting for the inspection report. How can we demonstrate we applied for re-accreditation? The COVID-19 ha impacted the activity of our inspector and the Office, which may lead to delay in the inspection reports. Centres can ask for a letter from JACIE stating that the centre is in process of being JACIE accredited. For any query please contact: My centre ha to go through the Interim Audit (IA) this year. Are interim audit being postponed? If your centre is due to send the IA document in 2020, the process will remain a scheduled. As the audit is only document-based, centre can still present documentation focused on quality management aspects. The JACIE office will send them to the inspector for review. Be kindly reminded that your interim audit is due in the same month you obtained the accreditation.If your centre requires some extra time to gather the document please contact , We can extend the deadline for a month if required. The required document can be found : Novel coronavirus additional information The following resource are being updated regularly with timely information: International & European authority (WHO) (CDC) (ECDC) The European Commission ha clarified that for which free circulation within the EU is crucial (EUnetHTA) The ECDC ha published a Epidemiology website Scientific society (ASTCT) (ASH)(ASCO) (NCCN) (EHA) (BSBMTCT): recommendation for COVID Adult BMT (GETH) (SFGM-TC) : Coronavirus and your stem cell transplant (WMDA) (NICE):Rapid NICE Guideline for COVID-19 in HSCT Scientific Journals : A collection of article and other resource on the Coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, including clinical reports, management guidelines, and commentary. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb The EBMT The EBMT is a non-profit medical and scientific organisation established in 1974 which host a unique patient registry providing a pool of data to perform study and ass new trends. We aim to be the connection between patients, researcher and other stakeholder to anticipate the future of cellular and stem cell-based therapies. Our community of healthcare professional is focused on innovation, research and the advancement of these field to save and improve the life of patient with blood-related disorders. More about the EBMT Follow u on Social Media Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Who we are The EBMT is a community of healthcare professionals, involved in clinical blood and marrow transplantation and cellular therapy, who share their experience and develop co-operative studies. The EBMT ha a governing body called the Board of Association and three set of group that channel the society's research aim and other activities: the EBMT Working Parties, Committees, and Nurses Group, which address issue within the field specifically related to nursing. Learn more about each of these group below. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EBMT Board of Association The Board of Association is the administrative body responsible for defining the strategic direction of the EBMT and running operation and decision that are not due to be taken by the General Assembly. Its responsibility include: Defining the Strategic Plan of the EBMT for the approval of the GA Approving the Plan and Annual Budget Supervising the Executive Committee Implementing decision regarding Plans and Budget Board of Association Members Executive Committee Anna Sureda EBMT President Congress Co-President Barcelona, Spain Raffaella Greco EBMT Secretary Italy Mette Hazenberg EBMT Treasurer Netherlands Mirjam Steinbuch EBMT Executive Director Utrecht, Netherlands Scientific Council Chair and Vice-Chair Fabio Ciceri Scientific Council chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio ALWP Chair Congress Co-President Milan, Italy Donal McLornan Scientific Council co-chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio CMWP Chair United Kingdom Scientific Council Representatives Antonio Risitano SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Registry portfolio SAAWP Chair Italy Annalisa Ruggeri SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Education portfolio CTIWP Chair PRACTICE HARMONISATION COMMITTEE VICE-CHAIR Italy President of the EBMT Nurses Group Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom Hilda Mekelenkamp President-Elect Nurses Group MEMBER NG SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Co-Presidents of the 51st Annual Meeting of the EBMT Anna Sureda EBMT President Congress Co-President Barcelona, Spain Fabio Ciceri Scientific Council chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio ALWP Chair Congress Co-President Milan, Italy Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Scientific Council - Working Parties The Scientific Council defines the scientific and education policy of the EBMT to be approved by the General Assembly. Its member consist of the Chairs of each of the 11 Working Parties and the Nurses Group President. Its responsibility include: Drafting the scientific and educational policy of the EBMT and preparing it for General Assembly approval; Regularly evaluating the scientific and educational activity of the Working Parties; Advising the Board on scientific and educational issues. Scientific Council Members Fabio Ciceri Scientific Council chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio ALWP Chair Congress Co-President Milan, Italy Antonio Risitano SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Registry portfolio SAAWP Chair Italy Tobias Alexander ADWP Chair Germany Donal McLornan Scientific Council co-chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio CMWP Chair United Kingdom Annalisa Ruggeri SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Education portfolio CTIWP Chair PRACTICE HARMONISATION COMMITTEE VICE-CHAIR Italy Bndicte Neven IEWP Chair France Dina Averbuch IDWP Chair Israel Zinaida Peri TCWP Chair Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Croatia Ali Bazarbachi LWP Chair Member Global Committee Post-transplant pharmacologic modulation subcommittee Beyrouth, Lebanon Krzysztof Kalwak PDWP Chair Poland Emanuele Angelucci HWP CHAIR Italy Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom The Working Parties The mission of the Working Parties is to implement the EBMT Scientific and Educational Policy through: The elaboration and management of scientific proposal with the support of the Data Offices; The elaboration and organization of educational activity with the support of the Executive Office; Contributions to the development and definition of guideline and policies. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EBMT Committees The EBMT Committees have been established over the year in response to various need identified by the EBMT community that span different function of the EBMT. Their objective are to support and advise the EBMT Board and other committee and management, a well a the Working Parties, a they carry out their activities. Learn more about each of the committee below. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EBMT Board of Counsellors The Board of Counsellors is an advisory board that give input to the EBMT on it strategic plan. Members Andrea Bacigalupo Member Board of Counsellors Honorary Member Italy Gsta Gahrton Member Board of Counsellors Honorary member Sweden Bob Lwenberg Member Board of Counsellors Netherlands Mary Horowitz Member Board of Counsellors United States Frederick Appelbaum Member Board of Counsellors United States A J Barrett Member Board of Counsellors United States Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EBMT Staff and Offices The EBMT ha implemented a work from home policy, therefore, if you need to contact any staff member, please complete our with your inquiry. Would you like to work for our non-profit organisation and make a difference? Apply to one of the open staff or society . Office Location Barcelona, Spain Edifici Dr. Frederic Duran i Jord Passeig Taulat, 116 08005 Barcelona (Spain) EBMT Executive Office Tel: +34 93 453 8570 JACIE Accreditation Office Tel: +34 93 453 8570 Leiden, The Netherlands Rijnsburgerweg 10 2333 AA Leiden The Netherlands EBMT Finance Office Tel: +31(0)71 526 1444 EBMT Leiden Study Unit Tel: +31 (0) 71 526 1513 Fax: +49 71 149 008 723 EBMT Clinical Study Unit Tel: +31 (0)71 526 5005 Paris, France EBMT Paris Study Unit / CEREST-TC Hpital Saint Antoine 184, rue du Faubourg Saint Antoine 75571 Paris Cedex 12 France Tel: +33 1 71 97 04 85 Fax: +33 1 71 97 04 88 Shanghai, China EBMT Foundation Shanghai Office 507, Block A Mingyuan Business Center No. 1199 Fuxing Middle Road Xuhui District Shanghai, China Tel:+86 21 66083918 Executive Office Mirjam Steinbuch EBMT Executive Director Utrecht, Netherlands Isabel Snchez-Ortega Medical Officer Practice Harmonisation Committee Secretary Barcelona, Spain Lissa Perteghella Leadership Support & Internal Communications Coordinator Administrative Support to Committees Madrid, Spain Clinical Research & Registry Department Annemiek Markslag Clinical Research and Registry Director Registry Committee Leiden, Netherlands Education & Events Department Noemi San Emeterio Education & Events Director Barcelona, Spain Quality of Care & Advocacy Department Tuula Rintala Quality of Care & Advocacy Director London, United Kingdom Community Relations, Marketing & Communications Department Guillermo Puigvents Community Relations, Marketing & Communications Director Barcelona, Spain Operational Support Department Shanghai Office Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Honorary Members Honorary membership is awarded by the EBMT in recognition of outstanding contribution to the BMT field and/or the work of the EBMT. Honorary membership ha also been awarded to founding member of the EBMT, past EBMT Presidents upon their retirement and key opinion leader in the field of bone marrow transplantation, cellular therapy and gene therapy. Rainer Storb Honorary member United States Jos Carreras Honorary member Spain Theodor Fliedner Honorary member Pierre Cornu Honorary member Gsta Gahrton Member Board of Counsellors Honorary member Sweden Eliane Gluckman Honorary member France Bernhard Kubanek Honorary member Germany EC Gordon Smith Honorary member United Kingdom Dick van Bekkum Honorary member Jon van Rood Honorary member Karl Blume Honorary member Jerzy Holowiecki Honorary member Poland Peter Ernst Honorary member Denmark Ferry Zwaan Honorary member Netherlands Alois Gratwohl Honorary member Co-chair JACIE Committee, 2000-2004 Switzerland Hans-Jochem Kolb Honorary member Germany Ardeshir Ghavamzadeh Honorary member Iran Jean-Luc Harousseau Honorary member France Athanasios Fassas Honorary member Greece Manuel Nicolas Fernandez Honorary member Spain Norbert Claude Gorin Global Committee Chair, Chief Representative EBMT Shanghai Office AUTO-SCT and graft composition subcommittee Honorary member Paris, France Boris Labar Honorary member Croatia Hele Everaus Honorary member Estonia Wolfgang Hinterberger Honorary member Shaun McCann Honorary member Massimo Martelli Honorary member Theo de Witte Vice-Chair of Myelodysplasia Subcommittee Honorary member Netherlands Tapani Ruutu Regimen-related toxicity and supportive care Subcommittee Chair TCWP EBMT Honorary member Finland Christian Gisselbrecht Honorary member France Axel R Zander Honorary member Germany Dean Buckner Honorary member United States Enric Carreras HONORARY MEMBER Spain Ray Powles Nuclear Accident Committee Chair Honorary Member United Kingdom Dietrich Niethammer HONORARY MEMBER Germany Per Ljungman Registry Committee Chair Honorary Member Stockholm, Sweden Mauricette Michallet HONORARY MEMBER France Andrea Bacigalupo Member Board of Counsellors Honorary Member Italy Dietger Niederwieser Honorary Member Germany Alejandro Madrigal Honorary Member United Kingdom Ernst Holler Honorary Member Germany Judith Marsh Honorary Member United Kingdom Fred Falkenburg Honorary Member Netherlands Noel Milpied Honorary Member France Didier Blaise Honorary Member France Arnon Nagler honorary member ALWP CHAIR 2014-2018 ALWP Molecular Subcommittee Israel Jane Apperley honorary member Chair JACIE Committee, 2008-2010 United Kingdom Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EBMT Membership The EBMT is a collaborative peer network of professional working in centre and a individual in the field of clinical haematopoietic cell transplantation, gene therapy and cellular therapy. Together, they make up the membership of our organisation. The EBMT ha more than 7,200 member in over 70 countries. Members contribute to and benefit from the collective knowledge that the EBMT ha accumulated within the EBMT Registry and focus on the main goal of saving the life of patient with blood cancer and other life-threatening diseases. The EBMT Registry is the backbone of the EBMTs research and educational activities. The main purpose of the Registry is to provide a pool of data to EBMT member to perform study and ass new trend in BMT, gene therapy and cellular therapy. As of 2024, the EBMT Registry ha acquired data on over 820,000 HSCT procedure a well a data on nearly 5,000 patient that received CAR T-cell therapy. All thanks to the reporting done by our members. Membership Types Are you interested in becoming a member? Click below to see a summary of the type of membership that the EBMT offer and their benefits: Centre Membership and it benefit Centre Members of EBMT are centre active in the field of transplantation, gene therapy and cellular therapy related to any kind of haematopoietic stem cell or immunomodulatory cell or any other organisation involved in the care of donor and recipient of hematopoietic stem cells. Patient Associations involved in the field of transplantation, gene therapy and cellular therapy related to any kind of haematopoietic stem cell or immunomodulatory cell that are interested in the activity of the EBMT can also become Centre Members. Benefits that come with this membership include: Have access to the to store and retrieve your data and obtain statistical overviews. Become part of one of the, and initiate and/or participate in the studies. Be eligible for a 50% discount on fees. Vote in the EBMT elections. Be an early bird forever to attend the and the .* *Patient associations' benefit. to view the full list of benefit and the fees. Individual Membership and it benefit Individual Members within the EBMT consist of healthcare professional actively involved in transplantation of any kind of haematopoietic stem cells, in the field of gene therapy or cellular therapy, or in the care of donors. Individual Members should hold a degree (MD, PhD, nursing degree or any other relevant degree to be assessed on a case-per-case basis) and demonstrate an expertise in stem cell transplantation, cellular therapy or other relevant fields. Students, patient and patient advocate involved in the field and that are interested in the activity of the EBMT can also become Individual Members. Representatives of pharmaceutical company or other corporate enterprise are not eligible for Individual EBMT Membership, but can become . Benefits that come with this membership include: Continue your education by having member access to the platform.* Be an early bird forever to attend the and the .* Become part of one of the. Get free online access to , the official journal of the EBMT. *Patient and patient advocate individual benefit to view the full list of benefit and the fees. Centre Membership Discover the in and out of Centre Membership within the EBMT. Click below to see the full list of benefit and fee before starting your team's application process. Individual Membership If you are a physician, nurse or any other healthcare professional this is a great option for you to enhance your professional development. View the full list of benefit and fee for Individual Members. Apply for Centre or Individual Membership There is a vibrant worldwide community waiting for you at EBMT. Begin your Membership application now. Changes to my Membership account If you would like to make any change to your membership account, including change to the contact information, team member information, the Principal Investigator of the centre or add in new team members, or if you have other question related to your membership, visit this page. Frequently Asked Questions On this page you will find answer to the most popular question we get asked when it come to EBMT Membership. Contact u Membership: for any amendment to your team composition, or for any question about your invoice, please contact the Membership Assistant at: Registry: For any help with reporting data in the EBMT Registry or for any specific question regarding registration of transplant data or data flow please contact the EBMT Registry at the following email: Studies: If you are interested in specific study or protocols, please contact the Chairperson of the corresponding . You will find their contact detail in the Directory section of the website. JACIE Accreditation: Should you require any information about the JACIE Accreditation Programme, or wish to receive a JACIE manual, please contact: Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / What we do The EBMT is devoted to the promotion of all knowledge associated with the transplantation of haematopoietic stem cell or immunomodulatory cell from all donor source and donor type including basic and clinical research, education, standardisation, quality control, and accreditation for transplant procedures. Our Mission, Vision & Values Main Areas of Work Society Publications The EBMT Organisation publishes a number of important reference in the sector. Click to learn more. Discover how becoming a Member of the EBMT can facilitate your contribution to the field of HSCT and cell therapy Partner & Sister Organizations The EBMT is involved in educational partnership with other groups, and also collaborates on an ad hoc basis with sister organization with complementary objective working in the field. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Our Mission, Vision & Values Our Mission We are a community of healthcare professional focused on innovation, research and the advancement of cellular and stem cell-based therapy to save and improve the life of patient with blood-related disorders. Our Vision As one of the leading medical and scientific organisation for cellular and stem cell-based therapies, we aim to be the connection between patients, scientific community and other stakeholder to anticipate the future of our field. Our Values Patient-focused HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS UNITED BY A COMMON GOAL: HIGH-QUALITY PATIENT CARE EBMTs primary goal is to improve the life of patient with blood-related disorder through research, education and advocacy. Reliable ROBUST DATA BUILDS TRUST: We work to improve the quality of patient care by providing robust and reliable real-world patient data to underpin quality improvement and innovation for patient benefit. Innovative WE EMBRACE CLINICAL RESEARCH, BASIC SCIENCE AND EDUCATION State-of-the-art practice is only possible if we combine these three essential elements. EBMT is a community of healthcare professional sharing their knowledge and experience of evolving technology in HSCT and cellular therapy. Quality-focused PATIENTS LIVES BENEFIT FROM HIGH-QUALITY CARE EBMT actively promotes quality improvement across the community. Our JACIE Accreditation program assures rigorous quality standard for clinical and laboratory practice. The EBMT registry provides the central framework for data collection, research and outcome analysis. Inclusive IN EBMT EVERYONE COUNTS Everyone can contribute to EBMT. As a respectful, representative, diverse and open-minded community, we know that every idea and initiative can be the seed of progress. Integrity WE CONDUCT OURSELVES IN ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE WAYS We are an independent professional community focused on providing comprehensive and trusted recommendation and data analysis to our member and stakeholders. Our goal is to improve quality of patient care through ethical, transparent and evidence-based processes. Collaborative STRENGTHENING EBMT WITH MEANINGFUL PARTNERSHIPS EBMT is open to clinical and scientific experience across the community, including interaction and collaboration with fellow societies, healthcare organisation and other stakeholder involved in HSCT and cellular therapies. Transparent A WELCOMING COMMUNITY WITH OPEN DOORS We share our knowledge, experience and research with the entire community in a transparent way. We are proud to show what we do, how we do it and why we do it. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) EBMT take it approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion seriously. We believe that improving good practice in these area is key to unlocking the potential contribution to our work of all our Members and staff and, most important, critical to our wider work challenging health inequality in patient care. In 2021 EBMT developed a three-year action plan to deliver progress in this area. An internal Taskforce wa set up to help implement this. In June 2021, the EBMT Board approved the creation of the EBMT ED&I Committee. EDI outcome are now reported annually to the EBMT Board. At EBMT we believe that better delivery over time of EDI issue is critical to providing the very best service to our worldwide patient community.. Related document Publications News Additional ED&I news and information Supplement to the N Engl J Med 2021 ED&I Committee Silvia Montoto Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) Committee Chair United Kingdom John Murray EQUALITY, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (ED&I) COMMITTEE DEPUTY CHAIR United Kingdom @johnerniemurray Anna Sureda EBMT President Congress Co-President Barcelona, Spain John Snowden Member JACIE Committee United Kingdom Noemi San Emeterio Education & Events Director Barcelona, Spain urea Villar HR Manager Barcelona, Spain Natacha Bolaos PATIENT ADVOCACY COMMITTEE CHAIR Spain @BolanosNat Raffaella Greco EBMT Secretary Italy Ibrahim Yakoub-Agha Practice Harmonisation Committee Chair France @i_yakoub_agha Isabel Snchez-Ortega Medical Officer Practice Harmonisation Committee Secretary Barcelona, Spain Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom Zinaida Peri TCWP Chair Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Croatia Nico Gagelmann CO-CHAIRPERSON TRAINEE COMMITTEE INTERNAL MEDICINE TRAINEE Germany @TheEBMT_Trainee @NicoGagelmann Claire Horgan CO-CHAIRPERSON TRAINEE COMMITTEE PAEDIATRIC HAEMATOLOGY TRAINEE United Kingdom @TheEBMT_Trainee @Claire_P_Horgan Ben Summerskill EDI Consultant United Kingdom Nada Hamad EQUALITY, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (ED&I) COMMITTEE MEMBER Sydney, Australia @nadahamad Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu EBMT Annual Report 2023 Our Society Anna Sureda EBMT President Foreword by the EBMT President Anna Sureda reflects on the EBMT's achievement and milestone of the past year. This comprehensive report encapsulates our journey towards excellence in Science, Education and Patient Care. The year 2023 marked a significant milestone for the EBMT a a scientific Society. In August 2023, EBMT proudly unveiled the official launch of the new EBMT Registry platform, a remarkable accomplishment resulting from year of dedicated teamwork (co-funded by the European Union under the EuroTraCTOR grant). This innovative platform replaced ProMISe and Castor, thereby enhancing our data management practice for a more cohesive user experience. The primary objective of the EBMT Registry remains clear: to provide EBMT member with a pool of data to perform studies, ass epidemiological trends, and ultimately enhance patient outcomes. Close collaboration between EBMT and national registry will ensure alignment with the need and request of users. Presently, the EBMT Registry contains data on over 700,000 patient who underwent a hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) procedure and over 8,000 patient treated with CAR T-cells. EBMT's commitment to advancing gene therapy strategy and recognising the growing importance of haemoglobinopathy ha led to the establishment of a new EBMT Working Party, the Haemoglobinopathies Working Party, which serf a the scientific and educational umbrella for all stakeholder interested in these diseases. The activity of the GoCART Coalition in 2023 were exceptional, with a notable increase in scientific endeavour evidenced by the publication of two new manuscripts, the culmination of the third edition of scientific excellence projects, participation in numerous educational activities, and active engagement in the harmonised collection of clinical data on patient treated with gene and cellular therapy from cell and tissue of hematopoietic origin to support collaborative study and regulatory decision-making processes. The 2023 edition of the Annual Meeting held special significance after three consecutive year of virtual gatherings; we welcomed over 4,500 attendee in person, complemented by more than 1,200 virtual participant representing over 100 countries. The newly formed EBMT Educational Task Force, established in 2023 and led by the Chair and Co-Chair of the Scientific Council, the Scientific Council Educational Representative, and the EBMT Medical Officer, ensures the involvement of representative from all Working Parties, the Nurses Group, the EBMT Trainee Committee, and JACIE to develop a diverse range of educational content in HCT and cellular therapy, a well a to provide resource for professional development. Throughout 2023, the majority of mid-sized and small educational event transitioned back to in-person formats, with attendance figure closely mirroring pre-pandemic levels. Credit is due to the highly organised and proactive Trainee Committee, which played an active role in these events. Special mention must be made of the EBMT- EHA 5th European CAR T-cell Meeting held in Rotterdam in February 2023, which achieved resounding success, establishing our organisation a leader in hosting the most significant and widely attended conference in Europe within this field. Furthermore, EBMT and the ASTCT solidified their strategic collaboration in education by hosting the 2nd Joint ASTCT-EBMT Basic and Translational Scientific Meeting in Sitges, Spain, in February 2023, and the ASTCT-EBMT 6th International Conference on Relapse After Transplant and Cellular Therapy (HSCT) in Los Angeles in November 2023. Each event provided an excellent platform for young researcher and trainee to present their work and engage with leader in the field. The year 2023 also marked a turning point for accreditation and benchmarking efforts. JACIE received 97 applications, representing approximately a 30% increase compared to 2022. The number of inspection conducted rose to 77, the second-highest in JACIE's history (2019: 78 inspections), signalling a return to pre-pandemic level of activity. Moreover, the number of accredited centre reached 68 in the past year, compared to 15 in 2022 and 27 in 2021. JACIE's robust activity in 2023 included organising three training course for inspectors, training 55 new inspectors, hosting a year-round webinar series, launching a new JACIE Inspector Handbook at the 2023 Annual Meeting, and enhancing inspector incentive by offering 72 grant for JACIE inspector to attend the 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT. Additionally, in collaboration with the Quality Manager Committee, JACIE developed a new, online, easily accessible accreditation preparation course aimed at boosting the confidence of centre staff in preparing for and undergoing JACIE inspections. The benchmarking project progressed steadily, thanks to the persistent dedication of various stakeholders, with the release of EBMT Benchmarking report covering the period from 2017 to 2021 in November 2023. The tireless effort of the EBMT Nurses Group were evident in a variety of activities. These included the release of the 2nd edition of the EBMT Textbook for Nurses, the 15th Educational Meeting of the EBMT Nurses Group, which brought together 47 faculty member a well a patients, nurses, physicians, physiotherapists, and engineer from academic and clinical setting spanning 13 different countries. Furthermore, 2023 saw the establishment of the Nurses Next Generation Group, aimed at fostering a community for early-career Transplant and Cell Therapy nurses, and the launch of a new EBMT podcast for Nurses titled "Blood Matters". I extend my profound gratitude to all stakeholders: the EBMT Board, the chair of the Working Parties and Committees, the EBMT centre member and individual members, the EBMT staff, and our partners, whose generosity and selflessness facilitated our remarkable progress in 2023. Without your unwavering support, none of these achievement would have been possible. I eagerly anticipate sharing many more milestone and celebrating EBMTs 50th anniversary with our exceptional community in 2024! Until we meet again! Anna SuredaEBMT President Read more Read le EBMT Annual Report 2023 Science Following the challenging COVID-19 lockdown period, EBMT ha intensified it commitment to continually advance the delivery of excellence in scientific research and education, both in the traditional but necessary face-to-face setting and in the online format... . Working Parties Activity Reports More in science EBMT Annual Report 2023 Education For the EBMTs Education and Events Department, 2023 wa a very exciting year, full of new projects, and the first in-person edition of the Annual Meeting and the European CAR T-cell Meeting since the pandemic. In 2023, the greatly anticipated new EBMT Registry wa launched, a did the training e-courses for National Registries, data managers, and EBMT Staff ... . Educational activity EBMT Annual Report 2023 Patient Care & Advocacy Improving the care of our patient is a critical objective of the EBMT. We believe in empowering, advocating and amplifying the interest of patients, survivors, and caregiver worldwide. Be sure to catch up on the activity of the Nurses Group, JACIE and the GoCART Coalition throughout this past year. Patient Care & Advocacy Initiatives Financial Report & Highlights 2023 Never in the nearly 50 year of EBMTs existence it financial resilience ha been tested more than in the past couple of years. Major challenge to the Society imposed by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and the war in Ukraine were absorbed without significant impact on it financial situation... Our Society Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Media Corner The Media Corner offer journalist the latest news from the last EBMT Annual Meeting, press releases,and press clippings. If you are interested in the EBMT Newsletters, you may access them via the link below the press clippings. Press Releases Press Clippings Image Gallery Copyright disclaimer: Please credit EBMT a the source of the image. Examples: Photo: EBMT; Image: EBMT. The image must not be used to state or imply the endorsement by EBMT or any EBMT employee of a process or service, or used in any other manner that might mislead. If the image is to be used in advertising or any commercial promotion, layout and copy must be submitted to EBMT beforehand for approval. Click on the photo below to access the photo gallery from the most recent Annual Meetings. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Year - Any -2015201620172018201920202021202220232024 Month - Any -JanuaryFebruaryMarchAprilMayJuneJulyAugustSeptemberOctoberNovemberDecember Area - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Area - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Creation year Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / EBMT Partners Partners of Excellence Corporate and non-commercial Companies or non-commercial organization active and/or interested in the field of haematopoietic stem cell transplantation and cellular therapy may become a Collaborating Partner of Excellence. Becoming a Partner of Excellence will allow you to work and collaborate with the EBMT community on different ventures, within your specific area of interest. With your support, we will be able to invest in enhancing the registry, data quality and scientific studies, improving patient care and outcome. Although collaborating partnersdo not have voting right and cannot hold office, they enjoy a range of benefit and membership rights.Your Partnership of Excellenceagreement with the EBMT grant eligibility to work with u on personalized project at a reduced rate. Costs will be assessed on a case by case basis and are independent of the partnership fees. All rate are locked in for the duration of your contract, irrespective of possible price increases. You can choose between our different enrolment plan in order to make the most out of our partnership. The EBMT aim for long-term relation with it partner of excellence in order to ensure a safe development of it activities. Benefits Corporate Partnership Visibility EBMT Transplant Activity Survey Participation in EBMT scientific study Collaboration with EBMT expert EBMT Pharma meeting Non-commercial Visibility EBMT report on specific subject of interest National Health Authority request Collaboration with EBMT expert EBMT stakeholder meeting BROCHURES DOWNLOAD EBMT Corporate Partners of Excellence Brochure EBMT Non-Commercial Partnersof Excellence Brochure Other Scientific Partners Organisations active in the field of HSCT and cellular therapy may become an EBMT collaborator/partner by entering into a ''Memorandum of Understanding'' with EBMT. The MOU can facilitate a variety of mutually beneficial agreements, with the main aim to build a network of expert and/or center (Doctors, Nurses and Data Managers) to exchange knowledge and experience through high quality science project and or educational event addressing important issue in HSCT. Companies may also inquire about becoming sponsor of the Annual Meeting, clinical trials, or Working Party events. Our Partners Distinguished Partners of Excellence Long-term Partners of Excellence Other Partners of Excellence Non-commercial Partners of Excellence Other Scientific Partners Common representation of Substances of Human Origin's (SoHO) (CoRe SoHO) Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / GoCART Coalition EBMT is the co-founder of , a multi-stakeholder coalition of patient representatives, health care professionals, pharmaceutical companies, regulators, Health Technology Assessment (HTA) body and reimbursement agencies, and medical organisations, collaborating to maximise the potential of cellular therapy manufactured from cell and tissue of hematopoietic origin. News Publications Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Career Opportunities The EBMT is a non-profit organization established in 1974. For more than 47 years, ha developed into the leading scientific society in Europe in the cutting-edge field of stem cell transplantation and cellular therapy. The EBMT ha office based in Barcelona, Leiden, Paris and Shanghai, and currently ha over 110 employees. If you are looking to join non-profit organisation where you can make a difference, apply to one of the open staff or society career opportunity posted below: EBMT Staff Vacancies Are you looking for a job where you can make a difference and work in a non-profit? Would you like to be a part of an international organisation on the cutting edge of science? EBMT Society Vacancies Our society aim to be the connection between patients, researcher and other stakeholder to anticipate the future of cellular and stem cell-based therapies. If you're looking for a position within an EBMT Working Party, EBMT Committee or the EBMT Nurses Group, see below: Acute Leukaemia Working Party (ALWP) Nurse An exciting opportunity hasarisen to join EBMT a a working party (WP) nurse. This position is available within the . The appointment is based on a 3-year Term. The purpose of the working party nurse is to promote and manage nursing research activity and nursing education within the Working Party under the supervision of the WP lead nurse and in collaboration with the EBMT NG Research and Scientific committees. Applicants must be EBMT member and a practicing Registered Nurse with experience of performing research and educational initiative in order to lead project and advise / support EBMT nurse members. There is a requirement to speak, read and write English with sufficient fluency to be able to communicate effectively. Access to email and phone is mandatory. Potential candidate should be working currently within the field of Haematology and Stem Cell Transplant. For further information, please see below role description and requirements. Apply If you are interested in this great opportunity to join our dynamic team, please send a copy of your CV and a statement of support outlining your relevant experience working in the field of Haematology and HSCT, together with your research experience and interest and why you wish to be considered for this role to: Daphna Hutt, EBMT Nurses Group Secretary: DEADLINE for applications: Friday 29 March 2024 midday. Job description Job purpose The post holder will manage the nursing research activity under the supervision of the Research Committee (RC), and nursing education activity under the supervision of the Scientific Committee (SC) within the Working Party (WP). As such they will be expected to contribute to the research and education agenda of the EBMT NG RC, SC and Working Party. The post-holder will offer support and guidance in the development of research study and educational initiatives, promoting opportunity for nursing research within the Working Party. Reporting to EBMT NG RC, EBMT NG SC, WP Chairperson Main activity To promote nursing research strategy and awareness within the WP To carry out research adding to the body of knowledge in appropriate area and make a contribution to the strategic development within both the EBMT NG RC and WP To support research and collaborative partnerships. To support dissemination of research finding through publication writing, teaching, and presentation at conference where appropriate To contribute to research within both the EBMT NG RC and WP, collaborating in the development of joint proposal and project work To promote nurse a investigator within research To assist in the development and delivery of educational initiative promoting nursing issues, in line with the EBMT NG and WP Any other appropriate duty a determined by the EBMT NG RC and SC Specific requirement The post holder would be expected to present any relevant nursing study to the WP for possible collaboration, and be involved in at least one WP research project, and / or be actively involved in the development and delivery of education project(s) agreed by the WP Duties and responsibility The duty and responsibility of an individual who ha been awarded the role of Nurse Member are outlined below: To act a a link between the EBMT NG RC, SC and WP, leading on nurse involvement within research study and for educational initiative agreed within the WP To produce and submit to the EBMT NG RC, SC, EBMT NG Board and WP, an annual report of activity undertaken (including research and educational activities) To produce and submit a summary of the WP Meeting and communication to the EBMT NG RC and SC. To facilitate communication and update the EBMT NG RC on new study within the WP for potential nursing collaboration Co-operation with other colleague both internally and externally to the EMBT NG RC, SC and WP Active participation in high quality research Assisting other colleague in the WP to develop their research from a nursing perspective a appropriate Demonstrate an active role within the WP, working a an ambassador for the EBMT NG, RC and SC according to the Terms of Reference. Special condition The post holder will be required to attend a minimum of 3 meeting annually the EBMT Annual Meeting (and WP Nurse meeting with RC & SC), which will be funded by EBMT / EBMT NG the WP Meeting (funding should be requested and agreed with the WP Chair) the Nursing Research Day (and WP Nurse meeting with RC & SC), which will be funded by EBMT NG The post holder will be required to attend a minimum of one WP Educational Event The appointment is based on a 3 year Term of Office, with potential for re-nomination for a maximum of 2 terms, i.e. 6 years. Person specification Essential Practicing Registered Nurse Time management skills; work independently, effective prioritization, self-motivation and flexibility. Evidence of multidisciplinary collaboration Excellent team player Proficiency in verbal and written communication skill (including English Language) Person specification Preferred Previous experience of; involvement in and/or development of, research protocol Previous experience of; involvement in and/or development of, educational initiative Preferably educated to a minimum of Masters Level or currently undertaking Masters Level Study Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP) Nurse An exciting opportunity hasarisen to join EBMT a a working party (WP) nurse. This position is available within the . The appointment is based on a 3-year Term. The purpose of the working party nurse is to promote and manage nursing research activity and nursing education within the Working Party under the supervision of the WP lead nurse and in collaboration with the EBMT NG Research and Scientific committees. Applicants must be EBMT member and a practicing Registered Nurse with experience of performing research and educational initiative in order to lead project and advise / support EBMT nurse members. There is a requirement to speak, read and write English with sufficient fluency to be able to communicate effectively. Access to email and phone is mandatory. Potential candidate should be working currently within the field of Haematology and Stem Cell Transplant. For further information, please see below role description and requirements. Apply If you are interested in this great opportunity to join our dynamic team, please send a copy of your CV and a statement of support outlining your relevant experience working in the field of Haematology and HSCT, together with your research experience and interest and why you wish to be considered for this role to: Daphna Hutt, EBMT Nurses Group Secretary: DEADLINE for applications: Friday 29 March 2024 midday. Job description Job purpose The post holder will manage the nursing research activity under the supervision of the Research Committee (RC), and nursing education activity under the supervision of the Scientific Committee (SC) within the Working Party (WP). As such they will be expected to contribute to the research and education agenda of the EBMT NG RC, SC and Working Party. The post holder will offer support and guidance in the development of research study and educational initiatives, promoting opportunity for nursing research within the Working Party. Reporting to EBMT NG RC, EBMT NG SC, WP Chairperson Main activity To promote nursing research strategy and awareness within the WP To carry out research adding to the body of knowledge in appropriate area and make a contribution to the strategic development within both the EBMT NG RC and WP To support research and collaborative partnerships. To support dissemination of research finding through publication writing, teaching, and presentation at conference where appropriate To contribute to research within both the EBMT NG RC and WP, collaborating in the development of joint proposal and project work To promote nurse a investigator within research To assist in the development and delivery of educational initiative promoting nursing issues, in line with the EBMT NG and WP Any other appropriate duty a determined by the EBMT NG RC and SC Specific requirement The post holder would be expected to present any relevant nursing study to the WP for possible collaboration, and be involved in at least one WP research project, and / or be actively involved in the development and delivery of education project(s) agreed by the WP Duties and responsibility The duty and responsibility of an individual who ha been awarded the role of Nurse Member are outlined below: To act a a link between the EBMT NG RC, SC and WP, leading on nurse involvement within research study and for educational initiative agreed within the WP To produce and submit to the EBMT NG RC, SC, EBMT NG Board and WP, an annual report of activity undertaken (including research and educational activities) To produce and submit a summary of the WP Meeting and communication to the EBMT NG RC and SC. To facilitate communication and update the EBMT NG RC on new study within the WP for potential nursing collaboration Co-operation with other colleague both internally and externally to the EMBT NG RC, SC and WP Active participation in high quality research Assisting other colleague in the WP to develop their research from a nursing perspective a appropriate Demonstrate an active role within the WP, working a an ambassador for the EBMT NG, RC and SC according to the Terms of Reference. Special condition The post holder will be required to attend a minimum of 3 meeting annually the EBMT Annual Meeting (and WP Nurse meeting with RC & SC), which will be funded by EBMT / EBMT NG the WP Meeting (funding should be requested and agreed with the WP Chair) the Nursing Research Day (and WP Nurse meeting with RC & SC), which will be funded by EBMT NG The post holder will be required to attend a minimum of one WP Educational Event The appointment is based on a 3 year Term of Office, with potential for re-nomination for a maximum of 2 terms, i.e. 6 years. Person specification Essential Practicing Registered Nurse Time management skills; work independently, effective prioritization, self-motivation and flexibility. Evidence of multidisciplinary collaboration Excellent team player Proficiency in verbal and written communication skill (including English Language) Person specification Preferred Previous experience of; involvement in and/or development of, research protocol Previous experience of; involvement in and/or development of, educational initiative Preferably educated to a minimum of Masters Level or currently undertaking Masters Level Study Scientific Committee of the EBMT Nurses Group An exciting opportunity ha arisen to join the of the EBMT Nurses Group. The SC in collaboration with the EBMT Nurses Group President and President Elect/ Past President, other Committees and other Nurses Groups, aim to co-ordinate and provide a range of educational activity for nurse and allied health professional within the field of Haematology, Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) and immune effector cell therapy. Applicants must be an EBMT member and will be required to speak, read and write English sufficiently enough to be able to communicate effectively. Access to email and phone is mandatory. Potential candidate should be working currently within the field of Haematology and HSCT. Roles and responsibility In order to make the most of the team wealth of experience and ideas, you will meet face to face with the other member of the committee four time a year. During the EBMT Annual Meeting (March/April) Post congress (May/June) The Board & All Committees meeting (September/October) Abstract selection meeting (January) You will also share information and update through teleconferencing and e-mail. The committee designates within the group all task that need to be performed in order to achieve the committee objectives. The scientific committee will present an annual report with an update of their activity to the EBMT NG Board with a proposal for operational expense where required. The annual report is submitted to the NG Board on or before 1st of September to be discussed at the annual Board and All Committees meeting. The SC will report in writing an interim update of their activity to EBMT NG board after receiving a request from the link person (will be requested 2 week prior to a board meeting). The committee designates within the group all task that need to be performed in order to achieve the committee objectives. As a member of the SC you will play a key role in the organisation of the EBMT Annual Meeting. This involves: Designing the program for the nurse education day and the main meeting Abstract judging and selection for oral and poster presentation at the main meeting Allocating space in the programme for symposium and other sponsored session Apply If you are interested in this great opportunity to join our dynamic team, please send a copy of your CV and a statement of support outlining your relevant experience working in the field of BMT and why you wish to be considered for this role to: Daphna Hutt, EBMT Nurses Group Secretary: DEADLINE for applications: Friday 29 March 2024 midday. External Vacancies Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Registry News Registry News Registry Newsletters Press release Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Registry Release Updates The EBMT Registry is a web application where data entry can take place. The web application wa released for all user on August 24th, 2023. The release version is referred to a version 1.0. Important information Since the latest release of the EBMT Registry (April 24th, version 2.2), a new pop-up can be seen when opening a patient that ha existing events. The popup will notify you that changing a field value will remove entered data, showing for what field this is applicable. This pop-up is triggered when migrated data appears in field that are not visible due to visibility condition in the EBMT Registry (e.g. if the patient is not dead, you will not see the cause of death). The message can be ignored now by pressing 'submit change'. In the next maintenance mode, which will take place May 14th-May17th, the data will be restored. Upcoming maintenance mode Due to maintenance or migration the EBMT Registry will be closed on the following dates: Dates Reason 14/05/2024 - 17/05/2024 Release of analytical tool, solution for the pop-up appearing 27/08/2024 - 29/08/2024 Migration cycle 4: field that failed, ethnicity (UK), postal code (UK and FR) 05/11/2024 - 07/11/2024 Extended dataset cycle 1 25/02/2025 - 27/02/2025 Extended dataset cycle 2 Known bug at release and fix date When user started working with the EBMT Registry, some bug were reported. Some of these have been resolved already, others are pending resolution with the next release. Issue Fix date Issues with saving form that have checkbox item August 31, 2023 Searching for date doe not work September 4, 2023 Sorting doe not work End of September release Issues with saving anonymous event August 31, 2023 Errors/warnings appear on empty field End of September release Typo in Ethnicity option Release 1.1 Hint text position is misplaced Release 1.1 Events that require your attention displaying wrong event Release 1.1 Events that display your attention doe not redirect to the correct event Release 1.1 Fields marked a Ongoing/Not Evaluated/Unknown are not cleared automatically after entering data Release 1.1 "Other" could not be found in select-search field Release 1.2 Patients can be created in the future Release 1.2 Hidden field can activate error/warnings Release 1.2 Endpoint returning error 500 on Filter based virtual registry Release 1.4 Donor GRID value upper limit Release 1.4 Further improvement on Other search Release 1.4 Empty patient page for Data Monitors/Viewers Release 1.4 Events can clutter the timeline Release 1.4 Dashboard displaying wrong information Release 1.5 Patient information variable not working on filtering Release 1.5 Errors incorrectly triggered on date and numeric field Release 1.6 Ethnicity question now display: "Only for UK" Release 1.9 CIC code now displayed during patient creation Release 1.9 Data viewer not being able to see all it patient Release 1.9 Release note As the EBMT Registry is in ongoing development, new functionality will be added every once in a while. The addition of new functionalities, improvement of existing functionality and bug fix are called releases. Version Release date 1.0 August 24th, 2023 1.1 September 26th, 2023 1.2 October 30th, 2023 1.3 October 30th, 2023 1.4 December 4th, 2023 1.5 December 12th, 2023 1.6 January 30th, 2024 1.9 (1.7 + 1.8) March 4th, 2024 2.1 April 22nd, 2024 Version 2.1 release note Release date: April 22nd, 2024. First major update of the new EBMT Registry. Contains also 2.0 version. Release goals: Implementation of versioning system to update the data capture forms. Data Service versioning system. Dynamic data source for linking between events. Special status for migrated field to ensure it visibility when parent question is empty. Discarded field to ensure we can hide non-relevant questions. Version 1.9release note Release date: March 4th, 2024. Releases 1.7 and 1.8 were combined into 1.9. Bug fixes: Data editor should be able to update consent sub-questions. Data monitor permission were spilling to data viewer causing them to not see the totality of their patients. UPN filter improved to deal better with cap sensitivity. Ethnicity question now display a disclaimer "UK only". CIC code now is displayed during patient creation. Archival of event now is clearly defined in the audit trail. Events that require your attention ha been improved to reduce the number of warning triggered. Validations to date field have been updated and will no longer trigger undesired error or warnings. Version 1.6 release note Release date: January 30th, 2024 New feature were added to the EBMT Registry: Changing patient data now requires a reason for change. Date of informed consent ha been updated to First date of Informed Consent. Bug fixes: Data editor should be able to update consent sub-questions Export button will no longer be greyed out when the number of patient to export appears a Unknown. The algorithm used to search the option in dropdown ha been update to find Other faster. Validations to date field have been updated and will no longer trigger undesired error or warnings. Version 1.5 release note Release date: December 12th, 2023 New feature were added to the EBMT Registry: Filtering on special statuses, such a Not Evaluated and ongoing is now possible. Bug fixes: Audit trail ha been improved to increment the information available for administrators. Filtering on patient information variable is working a expected. Dashboards displayed wrong information in some cases, this ha been addressed to show the correct information. Further change have been performed to the tentative patient check. Version 1.4 release note Release date: December 4th, 2023 New feature were added to the EBMT Registry: Filtering on special statuses, such a Unknown is now possible. Now it is possible to add note to patients. Centre based virtual registry user can create anonymous events. Bug fixes: Endpoint returning error 500 on Filter based virtual registry ha been fixed. Donor GRID value upper limit wa removed. Further improvement on Other search were implemented. Empty patient page for Data Monitors/Viewers should display appropiate patients. Events timeline wa re-designed to avoid accumulation of events. Version 1.3release note Release date: October 30th, 2023 Small improvement over 1.2: Data editor can now update consent status. Version 1.2 release note Release date: October 30th, 2023 New feature were added to the EBMT Registry: Filtering on empty fields. Making a PDF printable version of an event. Export functionality for data editor and data viewers. Maintenance mode so the EBMT staff can do change to the platform and migration of legacy data safely. Bug fixes: "Other" cannot be found in select-search field ha been addressed. It is no longer possible to create patient with date of event in the future. Hidden field do not trigger errors/warnings anymore. Version 1.1 release note Release date: September 26th, 2023 New feature were added to the EBMT Registry: Filtering now allows to filter on centre property such a CIC (centre identification code) or Country. Furthermore, now it is possible to filter by event without adding any extra clause, and on event creation date. Radio button can be cleared in case of erroneous data entry EBMT personnel will now have the capability to release predefined filter for all user Centre-based virtual registry will now allow user to see the anonymous event associated with the centre member of the virtual registry. Improvements to the EBMT Registry: Demo environment can be clearly distinguished from production now to avoid entering data in the wrong section. The event in the overview event that require your attention now redirect to the relevant event. Bug fixes: Fixed a typo in ethnicity option Hint text ha been positioned more appropriately Events that require your attention will no longer display event that do not require attention. Furthermore, now selecting the event that require your attention will redirect the user to the correct event. Fields marked a Ongoing/Not evaluated/Unknown will clear it greyed out status automatically when data is entered without a need for the user to click on it. Version 1.0 release note Release date: August 24th, 2023 Release of the tool to the public Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EuroTraCTOR European Transplant and Cellular Therapy Online Registry (EuroTraCTOR) EuroTraCTOR is an EU grant that wa funded under the EU4Health programme 2021-2027 (grant number 101079887). The objective of the project is to design, develop and implement a new EBMT registry to improve the process of collecting and using data across EU health systems. EBMT is a coordinating entity and count with the support from other 10 project beneficiary and 4 external expert organisations. The project started at the end of 2022 and ha a duration of 30 months. About the project The constant evolution of Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT) and cellular therapy requires the continuous development and improvement of information technology (IT) tool and features, a a prerequisite to adjust to new and innovative treatment and associated legal and technical requirements. In order to answer the current and future need of the HCT stakeholder Professionals and Competent Authorities (CA) the EBMT Registry requires a significant update of it structure and features. The proposed development will enable the correct monitoring of HCT activities, patient and donor safety oversight, and recording/collecting quality, safety, and efficacy data. A new EBMT registry will be built based on the need identified by HCT professional and CA and aim to be a flexible a possible, allowing it customization at regional/federal level to serve and adapt to different realities, in a user-friendly manner. The future platform aim to provide an adequate answer to the requirement of clinicians/professionals involved in HCT and Cellular Therapies on one hand and other stakeholder such a CA or other health authority on the other while complying with best practice associated with standardization and data protection (General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR), ultimately enabling better health decision leading to improved, outcome and care for EU. Grant detail Call topic: EU4H-2021-PJ-17: Action grant to organise and collect data to understand the safety, quality and efficacy of therapy applied in the field of assisted reproduction and based on haematopoietic stem cell Budget: 3,3M (2M EU funding) Duration: 30 month Consortium: 11 beneficiaries; 4 external expert entity Coordinator: EBMT Consortium Country Short name Name NL EBMT European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation ES ONT Organizacin Nacional de Trasplantes IT ISS-CNT Istituto Superiore di Sanit - Centro Nazionale Trapianti DE DRST Deutsches Register fr Stammzelltransplantationen DE UKE Interdisciplinary Clinic and Polyclinic for Stem Cell Transplantation at the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf IT GITMO Gruppo Italiano Trapianto Di Midollo Osseo FR ABM Agence de la Biomdecine FR SFGM-TC Francophone Society of Bone Marrow Transplantation and Cellular Therapy NL RADBOUDUMC Radboud University Medical Center ES GETH Spanish Group of Hematopoietic Transplantation and Cell Therapy BE BCR Belgian Cancer Registry External experts: Country Short name Name EU EDQM European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines & HealthCare NL ZIN The National Health Care Institute - Zorginstituut Nederland CH SBST Swiss Blood Stem Cell Transplantation UK BSBMTCT British Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation and Cellular Therapy Project plan Co-funded by the European Union. Views and opinion expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the European Health and Digital Executive Agency (HaDEA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb CAR-T Data Collection Initiative Reporting is learning. By reporting data on patient treated with CAR T-cell therapies, you contribute to academic research and regulatory decision making by health authorities. Ultimately, this support EBMTs mission to advance cellular and stem-cell based therapy and improve the life of patient with blood-related disorders. Data quality is fundamental to doing meaningful analyses. To ensure that we have complete and accurate data, EBMT invite centre that treat patient with commercial CAR T-cell therapy to participate in a Data Collection Initiativeto support Post Authorisation Safety (PAS) study mandated by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Centres that participate will be financially compensated. How is the Data Collection Initiative set up to support PAS studies? The data collection for PAS study is based on the standard Registry form and procedures, but a wider infrastructure is being set-up to support PAS study and reimburse centre for their work. Background information With the approval of the first CAR-T therapies, the EMA required MAHs to monitor their product in the long-term. The cellular therapy module of the EBMT Registry received a positive qualification opinion from the EMA, supporting the use of Real-World Data captured in the EBMT Registry to inform regulatory decision making by health authorities. CAR-T therapy are a very promising treatment option for many patient with haematological malignancies. However, the evidence on the long-term safety and efficacy of these treatment is limited. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) obliges marketing authorisation holder (MAH, pharmaceutical companies) to conduct post authorisation safety (PAS) study to monitor the long-term safety and efficacy of CAR-T therapies. These PAS study are based on secondary use of EBMT Registry data. In 2019 the EMA issued a positive qualification opinion of the cellular therapy module of the EBMT Registry indicating that the Registry fulfills the essential need to capture such data () and early 2020 the first PAS study protocol based on secondary use of EBMT Registry data were approved by the EMAs Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee. This mean that the normal EBMT Registry form and data collection procedure are used to collect data in support of regulatory decision making on various CAR-T products. It is important for EBMT to support these PAS study and be in the lead of the Real-World Evidence generation on CAR-T therapies. We believe that reporting is learning. At a centre level, data reporting can contribute to improved patient management. Moreover, we need data from all centre in Europe to be recorded in a central, academic registry to do meaningful analysis and to contribute to the global body of knowledge on CAR-T therapies. The informal mantra of the EBMT Registry, collect data once, use it often, also applies to the CAR-T field. Data wont need to be reported to separate registry owned by the MAHs and EBMT, but only to the EBMT. This reduces data-entry burden. Moreover, data collection is harmonised for all CAR-T therapies. The standard data collection form are used for the currently available CAR-T therapy and can also be used for many different CAR-T therapy in the future. This facilitates data entry and data comparability. Read more Read le Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What are the requirement for participation in the Data Collection Initiative? To participate in the Data Collection Initiative on CAR-T therapies, a centre must, first and foremost, report data on all patient treated with (commercial) CAR-T therapy in the EBMT Registry a per the standard data collection form and process (the Cellular Therapy form). This doe not require any additional contract and/or regulatory approvals. Consequently, this data collection is already ongoing and should continue. Secondly, if needed, help the EBMT Clinical Study Unit with obtaining regulatory approval for the which allows patient to also consent to share the data collected in the Registry with EBMTs collaboration partner including MAHs and health authorities. Thirdly, (re-)consent patient with the updated informed consent form. Finally, help to set up contract between your centre and EBMT which allows EBMT to reimburse your site for the data management efforts. (See the question What contract should my centre sign? below). What doe my centre have to do when participating in the Data Collection Initiative? You will need to complete the standard patient data in the EBMT Registry from August 24 onwards. In addition, we ask you to comply with data request (queries) to ensure completeness and quality of the data. Data on patient treated with CAR-T therapy need to be reported at the following time points: baseline, 100 days, 6 month and then yearly up until 15 year have passed and at that time a 15-year follow-up will be conducted. Also, we ask you to consent patient with the , which asks patient to indicate whether they allow sharing of their data with EBMT collaboration partner and source data verification of their data. ly patient who explicitly consent to share their data with collaboration partner will be included in the dataset that is shared with these parties. The centre should also be available for on-site monitoring visits. Why should my centre participate? What is in it for me? Participation in the Data Collection Initiative is important because reporting is learning. The PAS study are mandated by EMA because we lack information on the long-term safety and efficacy profile of CAR-T therapies. As a prominent European medical community, we want to be in the lead of evidence generation of these promising treatments. Collectively we can generate robust real-world evidence to support regulatory decision making a well a scientific studies. The current protocol for the PAS study are based on secondary use of Registry data. With this approach we prevent the creation of additional database owned by marketing authorisation holders. The EBMT Registry make data available to the scientific community and it avoids the need for centre to report data to multiple registries. By using a harmonised data collection form for cellular therapies, it will be easier to enter and compare data on different products. Centres will receive a generous reimbursement for their data management efforts. This money will be given for all patient treated with commercial CAR-T therapy who (re-)consent to sharing their pseudonymised data with MAHs a per the Product -Specific Agreement between the participating site and EBMT. If you have a good study proposal for a CAR-T-related study, you can submit it to the relevant or the . When your proposal is selected/accepted, you will not only have access to the data from your centre but (indirectly) also to data from other centre in your country or the Registry a a whole. Working Parties have dedicated statisticians, data manager and study coordinator to support the conduct of the selected proposals. What contract should my centre sign? The contract for the Data Collection Initiative for the PAS study are split in two parts; the Data Collection Master Agreement and the Product- Specific Agreement. The Data Collection Master Agreement governs the general data collection requirement that are identical for all CAR-T therapies. Whereas the shorter Product Specific Agreement specifies additional requirement for the individual CAR-T therapies. For each new product you will only need to sign a new Product-Specific Agreement. By using this set-up, in which the Product-Specific Agreements are incorporated in the Data Collection Master agreement, we aim to reduce the time needed for contract negotiation and thus reduce the start-up timeline and burden for new cellular therapy product included in the Data Collection Initiative. We also remind your centre to sign the (JCA). This document governs all data processing activity between EBMT and the centre and is thus a prerequisite but not specific to participate in the CAR-T Data Collection Initiative. The JCA should be signed by all centres, including those who do not participate in the CAR-T Data Collection Initiative. Will my centre be reimbursed? If your centre ha agreed to participate in the Data Collection Initiative and ha signed the relevant contracts, your centre will be reimbursed for all patient treated with commercial CAR-T therapy product that (re-)consent to allow sharing of their data with the marketing authorisation holder and health authority a per the stipulation in the Product-Specific Agreement. You will only be reimbursed for patient treated after the marketing approval date in the post-marketing setting and when good quality data is entered and can be shared with the MAHs. The specific detail of the inclusion period and payment schedule is provided in each Product-Specific Agreement. In addition to the Agreements, EBMT will inform the site which indication are contracted with the pharma company to get paid for those patients. When a new indication is contracted with the pharma company EBMT will inform the site accordingly. In summary: For Kymriah this mean until the inclusion target of 2500 patient globally ha been reached (competitive enrollment). On 24 April 2023, the inclusion wa closed for this product. Any patient included after this date will not be reimbursed. The marketing approval date for Kymriah is 23-Aug-2018 and the contracted indication were: pediatric and young adult patient up to 25 year of age with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) that is refractory, in relapse post-transplant or in second or later relapse; and for the treatment of adult patient with relapsed or refractory (r/r) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). For Yescarta the inclusion wa closed on 31 December 2023. The marketing approval date for Yescarta is 23-Aug-2018 and the contracted indication were: adult patient with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL). For Abecma this mean until the inclusion target of 300 patient in Europe ha been reached (competitive enrollment). The marketing approval date for Abecma is 18-Aug-2021 and the currently contracted indication are: adult patient with multiple myeloma. For Breyanzi this mean until the inclusion target of 200 patient in Europe ha been reached (competitive enrollment). The marketing approval date for Breyanzi is 04-Apr-2022 and the currently contracted indication are: adult patient with relapsed or refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), and follicular lymphoma grade 3B (FL3B). For Tecartus this mean all patient treated until 18 Jan 2028, unless the inclusion period is closed earlier per EBMT notification. The marketing approval date for Tecartus is 14-Dec-2022 and the currently contracted indication are: adult patient with relapsed or refractory (R/R) mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). More product and/or additional indication are expected to follow in the near future. Find your country. Find your contact. EBMT ha appointed both lead study coordinator and lead investigator for each country. Please refer to the list below to identify the contact person in your country. Country Lead EBMT Country lead PI Austria Guus Rijs Philipp Wohlfarth, MD, PhD; Medical University of Vienna, Vienna Belgium Guus Rijs Sbastien Anguille, MD, PhD; Antwerp University Hospital/University of Antwerp, Antwerp Croatia Paul Bosman Prof. Igor Aurer - University Hospital Center Rebro Czech Republic Paul Bosman Frantisek Folber, MD, PhD - Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital Brno Denmark Guus Rijs Soeren Lykke Petersen, Consultant, MD, D. Msc. - Copenhagen University Hospital (Rigshospitalet) Estonia Jessica Lemaitre Finland Dilyana Georgieva Dr. Mervi Taskinen MD, PhD - University of Helsinki, Helsinki France Jessica Lemaitre Pr Stphanie Nguyen -Universite Paris IV, Hopital la Piti-Salptrire, Paris Germany George Haroon Prof. Dr. med. Nicolaus Krger - University Hospital Eppendorf, Hamburg Greece Dilyana Georgieva Israel Paul Bosman Prof. Avichai Shimoni - Chaim Sheba Medical Center Italy Paul Bosman Dr. Annalisa Ruggeri MD, PhD - Ospedale San Raffaele s.r.l Netherlands Guus Rijs Dr. Pim Mutsaers van het Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam Norway Dilyana Georgieva Tobias Gedde-Dahl d.y. MD PhD - Oslo University HospitalRikshospitalet, Oslo Poland Paul Bosman Prof. Krzysztof Kalwak - Cape of Hope, Wroclaw Portugal Jessica Lemaitre Slovenia Paul Bosman Dr. Matjaz Sever MD, PhD - University Medical Center Ljubljana Spain Paul Bosman Dr. Anna Sureda MD, PhD- ICO- Hospital Duran i Reynals, Barcelona Sweden Dilyana Georgieva Prof. Dr. Stephan Mielke - Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm Switzerland Jessica Lemaitre Prof. Dr. med. Caroline Arber Barth - universit de Lausanne,Centre hospitalier universitaire vaudois, Lausanne United Kingdom Dilyana Georgieva Dr. Sara Ghorashian, Great Ormond Street Hospital, London Contact u if your country is not listed at Reporting Centres' testimonial CAR T-cell treated patient registered in the EBMT Registry EBMT is a Non-Profit Organisation EBMT is a non-profit organization supporting the transplant and cellular therapy community. In line with our Mission, Vision and Values, our resource are used to improve the life of patient with blood-related disorders. EBMT ha created a level of financial reserve to be able to guarantee it independence and neutrality regarding all it scientific and educational decision from any political and economic interest.All income to EBMT is re-invested to support our community with it scientific, registry, accreditation and educational activities. Recent activity and output in CAR T include: International Training Course, GoCARTConsortium, EBMT-JACIE/EHACAR T Guidelines, EBMT-EHA CAR T Handbook and the CAR T Data Registry amongst others. For more information about EBMT's involvement in the PAS Studies please visit the FAQs page. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Data Protection & Privacy The EBMT Registry collect data for research and development of new and improved transplant, cell therapy and immunosuppression procedures, and to improve the quality of these procedure through the accreditation of treatment units. EBMT is strongly committed to protecting the privacy of personal data that we maintain about patients, donors, member and employees. The EBMT ensures that all personal data under it responsibility is processed according to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The data is stored in an electronic database located in a European country which is protected by safeguard that ensure security, including compliance with ISO27001 certification. The data will only be accessible by EBMT employee and appropriately authorised non-EBMT party such a National Registries, following a stringent access control policy. Patient Privacy Statement This webpagedetails what personal data EBMT collect from patients, how it is collected and stored and the purpose for which it is used. There is also information on how to contact the registry and the right of individual data subjects. It wa generated in response to new legislation, the General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679, hereafter GDPR). Privacy Policy This webpage detail what personal data EBMT collect from members, how it is collected and stored and the purpose for which it is used. There is also information on how to contact the Registry and the right of individual data subjects. It wa generated in response to new legislation, the General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679, hereafter GDPR). Data Use and Processing Policy This Policy regulates the management of Personal Data relating to patient reported to the EBMT Registry and provides rule and procedure which apply to all department and individual within the EBMT, aimed at ensuring that Patient Personal Data is processed and protected properly in all country and region and in accordance with the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Joint Controllership Agreement with Centers with full EBMT Membership EBMT is strongly committed to protecting the privacy of personal data that we obtain frompatients, member and employees. In this context, EBMT ha developed a Joint Controllership agreement with Centers with full EBMT membership which describes the responsibility concerning data protection of the data reported to EBMT. At the same time, the agreement includes all the requirement established by the General Data Protection Regulation (EU 2016/679) (GDPR) concerning data processing and controllership obligation for EBMT member and EBMT. This documenthas been produced by the EBMT GDPR working group, revised and endorsed by the EBMT legal advisor for compliance with GDPR, and finally approved by the EBMT Executive Committee. It is of great importance that EBMT member who report data to the EBMT Registry sign this document and return it to the EBMT. If you have any comment or question about how EBMT process personal data, please send them to Joint Controllership Agreement for Data reporting to SFGM-TC and EBMT EBMT encourages the use of this Joint Controllership Agreement for centre that wish to report to EBMT and SFGM-TC. It is of great importance that an institutional representative of the EBMT/SFGMTC centre member, which report data to the EBMT and SFGM-TC Registries, sign this document and return it to This document ha been adapted to French speaking SFGM-TC centre located outside of France: Belgium, Switzerland, Lebanon and Algeria. Data Confidentiality The confidentiality of the patient data stored in the Registry is of paramount importance to the EBMT and procedure are in place to ensure the data is transferred and stored with the highest possible level of security. In addition to the above, the transfer or storage of confidential patient data must abide by the General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679, hereafter GDPR). As the EBMT is registered a a Dutch foundation, Dutch law applies to the EBMT, and we abide by the implementation of the European Union (EU) GDPR regulating how personal data is to be handled, through the Dutch application of this law. The law regulating transfer of data within the EU doe not cover country outside EU/EEA (European Economic Area), and the EBMT must ensure that centre lying outside this zone agree to conform to the EU law a stated above. The law requires that the patient consent to the data being transferred to the EBMT. In addition, if the centre intends to forward data, either directly or through the EBMT, to country located outside the EU/EEA, they must ensure this is explicitly stated in the patient consent form. Please see example of consent form in the link below. It is the centre responsibility to ensure that the patient ha consented before data is forwarded to the EBMT. EBMT Registry Conditions of Use Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Patient and Donor Informed Consent Centres should download and fill in the Informed Consent Forms in the appropriate language for each of their patient and donors, a the law requires that the patient and donor consent to the data being transferred to the EBMT. EBMT shall provide the Informed Consent Forms to the participating site to be used for data reporting to EBMT. The reporting centre shall be responsible for ensuring that the Informed Consent Forms are in compliance with applicable law and meet the minimum requirement a indicated by the Informed Consent template on this web page. No centre is exempt from obtaining patientand donor consent before submitting data to the EBMT. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Data Collection The EBMT request from all member centre that all patient undergoing an HCT, treatment for aplastic anaemia, or any type of cellular therapy be registered in the EBMT Registry. The EBMT Registry Data Collection Forms aid the collection of all the data that is required to be submitted to the EBMT Registry. Centres are responsible for ensuring that patient and donor consent to their data being transferred to the EBMT, prior to collecting data for submission to the EBMT. Informed consent template and further instruction on obtaining informed consent can be found on the Informed Consent page. Patient Registry Data Collection Forms In order to collect data, the EBMT us a set of Data Collection Forms (DCFs). These Data Collection Forms are referred to a the core dataset. This is the minimum essential data that must be provided by all EBMT Member centre for their consenting patients. The form are organised in the corresponding event type in the EBMT Registry. Completion guideline are available for every Data Collection Form. An introduction document to the completion guideline can be found Patient Registration Here you can find the Data Collection Form and Completion Guidelinefor all new patient registrations, for all diagnosis and treatment types. Document Name DCF Completion Guideline Patient Registration Diagnosis Here you can find all the Data Collections Forms and Completion Guidelines per diagnosis. Document Name DCF Completion Guideline Acute Leukaemias Autoimmune Disorders Bone Marrow Failure Syndromes (BMF) inc. Aplastic Anaemia (AA) Chronic Leukaemias Combined Myelodysplastic Syndrome / Myeloproliferative Neoplasm (MDS/MPN) Haemoglobinopathies Inborn Errors Lymphomas Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPN) Other Indication Diagnosis Other Non-indication Diagnosis Plasma Cell Disorders (PCD) inc. Multiple Myeloma (MM) Solid Tumours Treatment Here you can find all the Data Collections Forms and Completion Guidelines per treatment, including cellular therapy and immunosuppressive treatments. Document Name DCF Completion Guideline Disease Status at HCT/CT/IST Allogeneic HCT Autologous HCT Cellular Therapy Immunosuppressive Treatment (IST) Follow-up Here you can find all the Data Collections Forms and Completion Guidelines for registering Follow-ups per treatment, including cellular therapy and immunosuppressive treatments. Document Name Timepoint DCF Completion Guideline HCT (both Autologous &Allogeneic) Day 100 HCT (both Autologous &Allogeneic) Annual/Unscheduled Cellular Therapy Day 100, 6 month &Annual/Unscheduled Immunosuppressive Treatment (IST) Day 100 Immunosuppressive Treatment (IST) Annual/Unscheduled Anonymous Events Here you can find the Data Collection Form and Completion Guideline for registering non-consenting patients, a per your Centre's requirements. Document Name DCF Completion Guideline Anonymous Event Donor Outcome Registry Data Collection Forms Donor Outcome Registry Data Collection Forms Here you can find all the Data Collections Forms and Completion Guidelines for registering donor information in the Donor Outcome Registry. Document Name DCF Completion Guideline Donor Registration Donation Procedure and Day 30 Follow-up Long-term Follow-up or Death Reporting Manuals and Reference Documents Document Download EBMT Registry User Manual for Data Editors and Data Viewers Introduction to the EBMT Registry Completion Guidelines List of Chemotherapy Drugs, Agents and Regimens List of disease classification Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Data Submission The EBMT request from all member centre that all patient undergoing an HCT, treatment for aplastic anaemia, or any type of cellular therapy be registered in the EBMT Registry. The EBMT Registry Data Collection Forms aid the collection of all the data that is required to be submitted to the EBMT Registry. Centres are responsible for ensuring that patient and donor consent to their data being transferred to the EBMT, prior to collecting and submitting data to the EBMT. Informed consent template and further instruction on obtaining informed consent can be found on the Informed Consent page. How to request access to the EBMT Registry Data Editor Access Data Editor access allows a user to view, add, edit and export data within their context. The user can also see and answer data queries. Users will have to successfully complete the required e-learning training and obtain certification before they can access the EBMT Registry.Training on how to use the EBMT Registry is arranged automatically by EBMT when a person request access to the EBMT Registry. All request for Data Editor access to submit data to the EBMT Registry must be made by completing fully and correctly the form below. All completed form must be emailed to The EBMT Registry Conditions of Use can be found below. Data Viewer Access Data Viewer access allows a user to view and export already submitted data within their context. Users will have to successfully complete the required e-learning training and obtain certification before they can access the EBMT Registry.Training on how to use the EBMT Registry is arranged automatically by EBMT when a person request access to the EBMT Registry. All request for Data Viewer access to the EBMT Registry must be made by completing fully and correctly the form below. All completed form must be emailed to The EBMT Registry Conditions of Use can be found below. Access to patient given a prior treatment in another centre All data pertaining to one patient must be submitted under the same patient record, even if a patient ha different treatment in different centres. All request for access to a patient who ha been given a prior treatment to another centre must be made by completing fully and correctly the form below. All completed form must be emailed to National Registries A small number of National Registries submit data to the EBMT Registry on behalf of their centres. More information is available on the Data Sharing page. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Data Retrieval Page under construction. Centres have the liberty to run report on data they have access to, a per their requirement and needs. Centres are encouraged to run report themselves. Reports can be run by all user with Data Editor or Data Viewer access. Centres can also request for specific reports/exports (on their own data or data that is not their own) to be run by EBMT Registry staff. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Data Sharing EBMT share EBMT Registry data with a number of companies, study groups, society and organisation for data submission and data retrieval/research purposes, upon agreement and in line with GDPR requirements. Data sharing for data submission purpose In the spirit of facilitating data registration for centres, the EBMT can enter into data sharing agreement with organisation that centre collaborate with, that are willing to submit data to the EBMT on behalf of those centres. Such agreement also allow these organisation to access data already submitted by the centre to the EBMT, provided that the centre have made this request. The end result is that centre need to submit the same data only once, and can still fulfil their data provision commitment with other partners. National Registries are a type of organisation with whom the EBMT ha been sharing the Registry infrastructure for many year in a special partnership which ha been very fruitful for all. The National Registries are independent from the EBMT and have access to data from centre in their respective country and jurisdiction. These centre are either listed member of the National Registry or have requested explicitly that the EBMT share their data with a National Registry. Most of these National Registries actively collaborate with the EBMT Registry in data collection and training of Data Managers. A small number of National Registries enter data on behalf of their centres. Please contact your National Registry if you require more information on their activities. Another type of data sharing is the sharing of EBMT Registry patient record between centre where a patient had treatments. More information on this can be found in the under the section 'Access to patient given a prior treatment in another centre'. Below you can see the country where National Registries and EBMT are actively collaborating. Austria Belgium Czech Republic France Germany Italy Netherlands Spain Switzerland UK Data sharing for data retrieval/research purpose A procedure is in place for study groups/societies/organisations that wish to access multiple centre data from the EBMT Registry for research purposes. The Data Sharing service is available to all centre that are member of the EBMT, and wish to share their data for research purposes. While currently this service is free, the EBMT reserve the right to charge study groups/societies/organisations for this service in the future. Centres will not be charged for this service. Data sharing for research purpose is time-limited and subject to explicit request and approval by a centre PI a well a subject to approval by the EBMT. Please contact the Registry Helpdesk on with your request for data sharing. An appropriate request form will be forwarded to you, depending on the type of data sharing requested. Eurocord Centres can request that the EBMT share data of their patient who have received cord blood HCT with EuroCord. More information on this can be found in the document below. Centres that want to share data with EuroCord can request this by completing fully and correctly the form below. All completed form must be emailed to Stem Cell Transplant for Immune Deficiencies in Europe (SCETIDE) Centres can request that the EBMT share data of their patient who have undergone an HCT procedure for primary immune deficiency or FELH with SCETIDE. Centres that want to share data with SCETIDE can request this by completing fully and correctly the form below. All completed form must be emailed to Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Data Quality Page under construction. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Registry Education & Training This page directs you to some of the training and educational material made available by the EBMT Registry staff. If you have any question regarding training and education provided by the EBMT Registry, please contact the Registry Helpdesk on. Training on how to use the new EBMT Registry is mandatory and can be completed on the EBMT e-learning platform. The training is fully virtual, with weekly Q&A session organised from the first week of September 2023. Training on how to use the EBMT Registry is arranged automatically by EBMT when a person request access to the EBMT Registry. Instructions on how to request access to the EBMT Registry can be found on the Data Submission page. Instructions on how to access the e-learning platform to complete training on the use of the EBMT Registry will be sent out to individual uponreceiptof the relevant EBMT Registry User Account Request form, a detailed on the Data Submission page. Training Materials Data Collection Forms Completion Guidelines can be found on the Data Collection page. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Transplant Activity Survey Since 1990, the EBMT ha carried out the annual Transplant Activity Survey to prospectively collect number of patient treated with a haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) according to indication, donor type and stem cell source. Any clinical unit that perform any type of stem cell transplant can participate in the survey whether they are member of the EBMT or not. The Transplant Activity Survey ha become a tool for assessing the real picture of HSCT in Europe: exposing trends, illustrating the current status and providing essential data for counselling and planning. Its structure, standardised over many years, and the excellent commitment by the participating team make it possible to observe change over time and to evaluate factor associated with such changes. This Activity Survey is relevant to individual transplant teams, national organisations, health care agency and the industry a well a patients. All transplant team are strongly encouraged to join the survey. When & How to submit survey data Survey data request are sent to the centre in December of the year being surveyed and are collected during the first half of the following year. The 2023 survey is now open, the deadline for submission of the 2023 data is the 1 April, 2024. The data is captured via on-line survey(link is being sent to each centre individually by EBMT Activity Survey Team), whereby each transplanting team can report their entire annual activity by indication, donor type and stem cell source. It allows the reporting of first allografts, of first autograft (rows 1-32 and sum in row 33) and of additional transplant or retransplants performed due to disease progression, engraftment failure or a part of a planned multiple transplant protocol (row 34). Row 35 (all transplants) is the sum of row 33 + row 34. Paediatric transplant activity (<18 year at transplant) can be reported both in the main table (row 1-32) by indication, donor type and stem cell source and additionally a a total number in row 36. Entering the total number of paediatric patient additionally in row 36, enables u to perform a separate analysis of the paediatric and adult data. The total number of non-myeloablative (including RIC) allogeneic transplants, either first or non-first, can be reported in row 37. The number of patient receiving un-manipulated donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) in 2023 can be reported in row 38. Please enter your data in the field according to the main reason for giving the DLI therapy. Please report the number of patient and not the number of infusions. Number of patient receiving Immunosuppressive Treatments (IST) for Bone Marrow Failure Syndromes (acquired and congenital) in 2023 can be reported in row 39. Please enter the number of patient treated with IST for Aplastic Anaemia (AA) and for other Bone Marrow Failure Syndromes separately. Table 2 is dedicated to the reporting of non HSCT cell therapies. Report the number of patient receiving cell therapy using manipulated or selected cell in your centre in 2023 by indication and donor type in row 1-9. Report the number of patient and not the number of infusions: E.g., a patient with three NK infusion is counted a one patient. Cell therapy can be reported within or outside of the context of HSCT. Please also report CAR-T patient treated in clinical trials, a this survey doe not affect any confidentiality issue and provides an overview of how many therapy are performed in Europe each year. For help in reporting, please read the Activity survey manual and Guidelines below or contact us. Please submit your data using on-line survey. If you are unable to submit your data via on-line survey please contact us. How to submit your data by either mail or post: Download the EBMT survey on transplant activity 2023 excel document below. Complete the relevant data fields. Name and save your file with your CIC number and or centre details. If you do not have a CIC number, name the file after the name of your institution. Email the form to the survey coordinator () or return by post to: EBMT Transplant Activity Survey Team Rijnsburgerweg 10 2333 AA Leiden, The Netherlands Manual & Guideline Before you complete the Survey, please read the 'Activity Survey Manual' and 'Guidelines' below. Forms The Survey is available on-line and in excel and pdf format below. It should be completed in the manner indicated in the How & When to Submit Survey Data section above. How can I see the results? Data from the most recent survey year are presented at the EBMT annual meeting and are available to participating team and sponsors. If you are an EBMT Member and if you want to access the most recent data, please contact the Activity Survey Coordinator. External person or organisation may also apply for access to the survey data against payment of a fee. Please provide detailed information about the data required and it intended use to the Activity Survey Coordinator, who will ass the feasibility of the request before passing it on to the EBMT for approval and costing. Please note that some of these data may not have been published and should be treated a confidential. It is for internal use only and may not be used for publication without obtaining prior consent. Activity Survey data is published a a peer reviewed publication in Bone Marrow Transplantation each year. A full set of slide is prepared annually showing the trend and development over the years. A selection of these slide is available on request. Individual analysis maybe requested by the EBMT Partners of Excellenceand participating team upon justification of it use. EBMT Transplant Activity Survey Team Please contact u at Marina Atlija Statistical Analyst/Pharma Dedicated Data Manager Amsterdam, Netherlands Iliana Kleovoulou Statistical Analyst/ Pharma Dedicated Data Manager Leiden , Netherlands Aleksandra Witaszek Junior Business Manager fundraising@ebmt.org Leiden, Netherlands Helen Baldomero Activity Survey Expert Basel, Switzerland Jakob R. Passweg Activity Survey Clinical Advisor Switzerland Transplant Activity Survey Publications List Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Archived ProMISe and Castor Documents Data entry to ProMISe and Castor is now closed. The document below are for information purpose only, and should not be used in the data collection process. You can find the new EBMT Registry Data Collection Forms in the Data Collection page. HSCT MED-A Forms You can download separate MED-A form by diagnosis and graft type below. Alternatively, you can download the full version. MED-A Day 0 by Diagnosis and Graft type Diagnosis autograft allograft Acute Leukaemias - Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML) Acute Leukaemias - Precursor Lymphoid Neoplasms (PLN) Acute Leukaemias - Other acute leukaemia Autoimmune Diseases Bone Marrow Failure inc Aplastic Anaemia and Haemoglobinopathy Chronic Leukaemias - Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML) Chronic Leukaemias - Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) Chronic Leukaemias - Prolymphocytic Leukaemia (PLL) / Other leukaemia Inherited Disorders Lymphomas - Hodgkins Lymphomas - B-cell Non Hodgkins (NHL) Lymphomas - T-cell Non Hodgkins (NHL) MDSs and MPNs - Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) MDSs and MPNs - Combined Myelodysplastic / Myeloproliferative (MDS/MPN) MDSs and MPNs - Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPN) Plasma Cell Disorders (PCD) inc Multiple Myeloma Solid Tumours MED-A Day 100 and Follow Up by Graft Type Document autograft allograft Day 100 Follow Up Additional MED-A Documents Document Download MED-A Forms Full Version Summary of MED-A change (April 2016 onwards) HSCT MED-B Forms One of the two type-specific form (Allograft or Autograft) must be submitted for each transplant. Additionally, at least one disease form must be submitted with each transplant. Type-specific Forms Autograft Allograft Disease-specific Forms Acute Leukaemia Amyloidosis Bone Marrow Failure Syndromes inc Aplastic Anaemia CLL CML Haemoglobinopathy Inherited Disorders Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA) Lymphoma MDS MDS/MPN (e.g. CMML, JMML) MPN Multiple Sclerosis Plasma Cell Disorders inc Multiple Myeloma Solid Tumours Systemic Lupus Erithematosus (SLE) Systemic Sclerosis Additional Forms Total Body Irradiation Clinical Manuals & Reference Documents Document Download MED-AB Forms Manual Cellular Therapy Manual Donor Outcome Manual MED-AB List of Drug Names and Synonyms Definitions for Disease Status and Response by Disease (xls) Definitions for Disease Status and Response by Disease NIH-defined GvHD IDWP - Definitions of Infectious Diseases and Complications After SCT Castor Handbook Cellular Therapy Forms Manual Cellular Therapy Forms Document Download Cellular Therapy Pre-Infusion Registration Form Cellular Therapy Day 0 Form Cellular Therapy Day 100, 6M and Annual Follow Up Form Donor Outcome Forms Document Download Donor Outcome Forms Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Research EBMT research aim to further the knowledge base in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation and cell therapy with the ultimate goal of improving patient care. The EBMT coordinate it scientific activity through 11 Working Parties and the Nurses Group. Since 1974, the use of EBMT data and statistical resource ha resulted in hundred of publication in peer-reviewed scientific journals. EBMT Studies Learn about EBMT's ongoing research in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation and find out more about the type of study we undertake and how to submit proposals. EBMT Publications Members receive information about co-operative study and result of EBMT research project and have access to the EBMT Registry Research Groups The EBMT coordinate it scientific activity through 11 Working Parties, which are either disease-based or transversal, and the EBMT Nurses' Research Group. Learn more about the focus of and research carried out by each of these group on the page below. Research Grants & fellowship The EBMT offer grant and fellowship to research projects. Research News Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / EBMT Publications EBMT data and statistical resource have resulted in more than 600 publication in peer-reviewed scientific journal since 1974. In addition, the EBMT a an organisation publishes a journal, Bone Marrow Transplantation, featuring high-quality, peer-reviewed original research and review in the field of haematopoietic cell transplantation. Download the documentbelow to read more about our guideline and requirement for publication, and visit the BMT Journal website. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Area - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Year - Any -198619871988198919901991199219931994199519961997199819992000200120022003200420052006200720082009201020112012201320142015201620172018201920202021202220232024 Disease - Any -All diseasesAcute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)Chronic Myeloid Lymphoma (CML)Acute Lymphatic Leukaemia (ALL)Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL)Myelodysplastic (MDS) or MDS/MPNMyeloproliferative Neoplasm (MPN)Multiple Myeloma (MM) or other Plasma Cell Disorder (PCD)Hodgkins Disease (HD)Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL)Other myeloid or lymphoid malignanciesSolid tumorsBone marrow failureAuto immune disordersInherited disordersOther non-malignant disordersComplications: GvHDComplications: infectiousComplications: non-infectiousCOVID-19 Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Year - Any -2015201620172018201920202021202220232024 Month - Any -JanuaryFebruaryMarchAprilMayJuneJulyAugustSeptemberOctoberNovemberDecember Area - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / EBMT Studies The EBMT Working Groups, the Nurses Group, and the GoCART coalition with the support of the Statistical Committee and the Study Offices, carry out three type of Studies: Non-interventional Prospective and Retrospective Studies a well a Clinical Trials. EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy EBMT CAR-T Studies Open Surveys Centre participation is of critical importance to the efficacy and overall relevance of the Studies carried out by the EBMT. For this reason, we have a page dedicated to New Studies with open call for participation through surveys. By accessing this page you can learn about these new study and whether your centre is eligible to submit survey data to be included. Research Overview Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Study type - Any -- None -Clinical Trials Phase I-IIIClinical Trials Phase IVPost Authorization Safety (PAS) StudiesNon-interventional Prospective StudiesRetrospective StudiesSurveys Disease - Any -All diseasesAcute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)Chronic Myeloid Lymphoma (CML)Acute Lymphatic Leukaemia (ALL)Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL)Myelodysplastic (MDS) or MDS/MPNMyeloproliferative Neoplasm (MPN)Multiple Myeloma (MM) or other Plasma Cell Disorder (PCD)Hodgkins Disease (HD)Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL)Other myeloid or lymphoid malignanciesSolid tumorsBone marrow failureAuto immune disordersInherited disordersOther non-malignant disordersComplications: GvHDComplications: infectiousComplications: non-infectiousCOVID-19 Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Type of transplant - Any -- None -AllogeneicAllogeneic - RelatedAllogeneic - UnrelatedAllogeneic - HaploidenticalAutologousDonor Leukocyte Infusion (DLI)CAR TGene TherapyCellular therapy (other than DLI) Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Open Surveys The following list represents Studies for which call for participation are currently open. Learn about the individual study below, and click the link to find out more about the Working Party responsible for the study. Post-transplant haemorrhagic cystitis (HC) in patient who undergo allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) Group Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP) Haemorrhagic cystitis (HC) is a common complication after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) referring to bleeding from the bladder mucosa due to urinary bladder inflammation. Early-onset HC ha been associated with bladder mucosal damage by chemotherapy or radiotherapy in the conditioning phase, while late-onset HC in the peri-engraftment period is increasingly associated with BK polyoma virus infection. Even though there have been significant development in transplant practice over the last years, HC in transplant patient ha not been investigated among EBMT centre in the last decade. Therefore, the current study aim to obtain information on both the practice and management, a well a the incidence and outcome, of HC in EBMT transplant patients. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Acute Leukaemia Working Party (ALWP) The Acute Leukemia Working Party relies on a large registry based in Paris. It is devoted to the promotion and analysis of all primary and secondary myeloid and lymphatic acute leukemia aspect associated with the transplantation of stem cell from Autologous and all donor type including T deplete and T replete Haploidentical transplant a well a cord blood transplantation, including prospective and retrospective studies, and education in this field. Learn more about the ALWP Over the last decades, study conducted by ALWP member have yielded a significant amount of scientific knowledge, creating the basis for continuously improving patient care. With the support of the different ALWP subcommittees' leader (F. Ciceri, J. Esteve, S. Giebel, NC. Gorin, F. Baron, B. Savani and C. Schmid), the data manager (E. Polge, A. Mailhol, M. Houhou, E. Penisson (part time)), the help of invited Post Doc fellows, (Eder S. (Austria), Lorentino F. (Italy) and Sun Y. (China)), our dedicated statistician, M. Labopin, ALWP member and all EBMT participating centres, the study portfolio of the ALWP ha grown quickly, and generated an amazing number of published manuscript and communication at major meeting such a the EBMT, ASH, EHA and ASBMT/CIBMTR Tandem meetings. The huge scientific productivity of the ALWP over the past month is a good illustration of the success of EBMT strategy. We deeply believe in the capacity of the ALWP - with the support of and in cooperation with the other working party and EBMT leadership - to continue facing new challenge successfully. ALWP Team Fabio Ciceri Scientific Council chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio ALWP Chair Congress Co-President Milan, Italy Eolia Brissot Secretary ALWP France Emmanuelle Polge ALWP, TCWP, GoCART Clinical Data Specialist Paris, France Irma Khvedelidze ALWP & LWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Mohamed Houhou ALWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Pascale Ambron ALWP, ADWP, TCWP DATA MANAGER Paris, France Diane Bacabac ALWP, PDWP Junior Data Manager Paris, France Aleksandra Gavrilina ALWP, LWP, PDWP Junior Data Manager Paris, France Myriam Labopin ALWP, ADWP Senior Biostatistician Paris, France Jacques-Emmanuel Galimard ALWP, PDWP, HWP, GoCART Biostatistician Statistical Committee Chair Registry Committee Paris, France Maud Ngoya ALWP, LWP, PDWP Biostatistician Paris, France EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy News ALWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Subcommittees & Members Jordi Esteve Molecular Markers Subcommittee Spain Arnon Nagler honorary member ALWP CHAIR 2014-2018 ALWP Molecular Subcommittee Israel Sebastian Giebel Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Poland Zinaida Peri TCWP Chair Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Croatia Bipin Savani Conditioning Subcommittee United States Alexandros Spyridonidis Conditioning Subcommittee Greece Frdric Baron Cord Blood Subcommittee Belgium Christoph Schmid Immunotherapy Subcommittee Germany Norbert Claude Gorin Global Committee Chair, Chief Representative EBMT Shanghai Office AUTO-SCT and graft composition subcommittee Honorary member Paris, France Francesco Lanza AUTO-SCT and graft composition subcommittee Italy Roni Shouval Data mining Subcommittee Jurjen Versluis Data mining Subcommittee Netherlands Gesine Bug Post-transplant pharmacologic modulation subcommittee Germany Ali Bazarbachi LWP Chair Member Global Committee Post-transplant pharmacologic modulation subcommittee Beyrouth, Lebanon Jaime Sanz Caballer Alternative donor subcommittee Spain Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP) The SAAWP report on Aplastic Anaemia (AA) and other rare acquired and inherited bone marrow failure disorders. The SAAWP provides essential data on outcome after treatment from large number of patient that can only be obtained from large registry like the EBMT. It also provides important clinical information needed to help classify and characterise the disease and data on the natural history of the disease and late effect that occur after treatment. The SAAWP hold the Aplastic Anaemia (AA) database that is the only disease-specific database within the EBMT. Data are collected not only on patient receiving transplant but also other form of therapy, including immunosuppressive therapy. SAAWP Team Antonio Risitano SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Registry portfolio SAAWP Chair Italy Austin Kulasekararaj SECRETARY SAAWP United Kingdom Kelly Hennessy SAAWP Nurse United Kingdom Brian Piepenbroek SAAWP STUDY COORDINATOR LEAD Nurses Group Study Coordinator Lead Leiden, Netherlands Joe Tuffnell CMWP & SAAWP Data Manager Leiden, Netherlands Simona Iacobelli CMWP & SAAWP Senior Biostatistician Rome, Italy Dirk-Jan Eikema CMWP & SAAWP Biostatistician Leiden, Netherlands EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy News SAAWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP) The ADWP is dedicated to promoting clinical activities, teaching and translational research on autologous/allogeneic HSCT together with novel approach of cellular therapy a specific treatment of severe Autoimmune Diseases (AD), in a specific challenge to re-induce self-tolerance by resetting the immune system. The ADs section of the EBMT Registry is the largest database of it kind worldwide. ADs is recently facing a unique developmental phase across EBMT centres. Autologous HSCT ha become an integral and standard-of-care part of treatment algorithm in multiple sclerosis (MS) and systemic sclerosis (SSc). Recently, novel cellular therapy (ie CART cells, mesenchymal cells) have been successfully adopted in ADs. A multidisciplinary approach is key in this field, and the ADWP ha the strategic task of interacting with other Autoimmune Diseases (AD) specialist and their respective scientific societies. ADWP Team Tobias Alexander ADWP Chair Germany Ariadna Domnech ADWP Nurse Spain Manuela Badoglio ADWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Pascale Ambron ALWP, ADWP, TCWP DATA MANAGER Paris, France Myriam Labopin ALWP, ADWP Senior Biostatistician Paris, France EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy Events News ADWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP) The mission of the Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party is to understand and exploit the biological, including immunological, event occurring upon haematopoietic stem cell transplantation at large, and to implement modern cellular therapy based on cell and gene engineering approach to improve transplantation outcomes. Learn more about the CTIWP Cellular Therapy is an emerging medical science that is today facing a unique developmental phase, well documented by the outstanding and growing number of clinical trials. Such an exponential growth requires proper infrastructures, cell repositories, clinical registries, technical and regulatory guideline for appropriate cell manipulation and validation of the innovative therapeutic approach in multicentric clinical trials. The CTIWP aim at fostering cellular therapy in Europe, through a continuous crosstalk between basic science findings, transplant immunobiology observation and implementation of cellular manufacturing approach designed to answer unmet medical needs. To this aim we will actively implement: Retrospective and multicentric prospective transplant immunobiology study Retrospective and multicentric prospective clinical trial of cell/gene therapy A map of European Centers active in cell manipulation and cell therapy A dedicated registry for cellular product and clinical trial of cell and cell-based gene therapy. These aim will be pursued through the activity of WP subcommittee and through an active collaboration with International and European Societies of Transplantation, Cell/Gene Therapy and with major investor in the field. CTIWP Team Annalisa Ruggeri SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Education portfolio CTIWP Chair PRACTICE HARMONISATION COMMITTEE VICE-CHAIR Italy Florent Malard CTIWP SECRETARY Initiative on Microbiota France Ruth Clout CTIWP Nurse United Kingdom Jrgen Kuball LRAC Chair Liaison with European Medicines Agency, European Commission & Industry Netherlands Jorinde Hoogenboom CTIWP Study Coordinator Lead Leiden, Netherlands Jarl Mooyaart CTIWP & Nurses Group Biostatistician Leiden, Netherlands Jeroen Knippenberg IEWP & CTIWP Data Manager Leiden, Netherlands EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy Events News CTIWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Subcommittees & Members Immunogenetics Katharina Fleishhauer Esteban Arrieta Bolanos Microbiota Florent Malard Giorgia Battipaglia Solid tumor Paolo Pedrazzoli Ulrike Koehl Liaison with EBMT Nurses Group Ruth Clout Hematopoietic stem cell subcommittee Eurocord Annalisa Ruggeri Fernanda Volt Transplantation and immunology Nicole Santoro Moniek de Witte, Federico Simonetta CART cell and immunology Simona Pagliuca Ana Alarcon Immunotherapy pediatric and AYA Francesca Del Bufalo Sara Gorashian Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP) The Chronic Malignancies Working Party promotes and conduct educational activity and clinical investigation on the role of hematopoietic cell transplantation in chronic malignancy such a chronic leukaemias, myelodysplastic syndromes, myeloproliferative and plasma cell disorders. The CMWP aim to contribute to improving outcome for patient undergoing stem cell transplantation for chronic hematologic malignancy by the following means: Performing high quality retrospective registry study Performing prospective clinical trial and non-interventional study (NIS) Improving the quality of EBMT registry data Promoting scientific interaction by organising educational course and scientific meeting Collaborating with national and international transplant- and disease-specific group Disseminating knowledge to the transplant and non-transplant scientific communities, patient organisation and the lay public CMWP Team Donal McLornan Scientific Council co-chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio CMWP Chair United Kingdom Joanna Drozd-Sokolowska Co-Secretary CMWP Poland Kavita Raj Co-Secretary CMWP United Kingdom Maaike de Ruijter CMWP Nurse Netherlands Linda Koster CMWP Study Coordinator Lead Clinical Programmer Registry Committee Leiden, Netherlands Laurien Baaij CMWP DATA MANAGER Leiden, Netherlands Joe Tuffnell CMWP & SAAWP Data Manager Leiden, Netherlands Simona Iacobelli CMWP & SAAWP Senior Biostatistician Rome, Italy Dirk-Jan Eikema CMWP & SAAWP Biostatistician Leiden, Netherlands Luuk Gras CMWP Biostatistician Leiden, Netherlands Structure The CMWP consists of five subcommittees: Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) including Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukaemia (CMML) Plasma Cell Disease (PCD) CART PCD Philadelphia-negative Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (Ph-neg MPN) Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML) Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) Each subcommittee will have a chair and one or two vice-chairs. Vice-chairs should act a co-chairs and should be directly responsible for at least two studies. (Chairs of subcommittee should allocate at least two study to each vice-chair) The chair of the CMWP appoints the chair and vice-chairs of subcommittees. Subcommittee member who have served over four year on the board may be replaced to provide opportunity for other interested WP members. It is a goal of the current chair to have the board reflect the international range of EBMT-affiliated centres. Membership Working Party membership is open to all physician in EBMT-affiliated Transplant Centres. Applicants from elsewhere are welcome to apply to join. The final decision will rest with the Chair of the Working Party. The secretary maintains the list of members. If a member ha not attended any meeting for two years, they will be deemed to have left the Working Party and will no longer receive group email communication from the Secretary. EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy News CMWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP) The IEWP is dedicated to improving the outcome of transplantation for inborn error of metabolism including severe congenital immunodeficiency and metabolic diseases. The IEWP aim to do this through the exchange of idea and transplant data; international collaborative retrospective study to look at the outcome of transplant for these conditions; the development of transplant guideline and the education of transplant physician worldwide; and the development and use of a common registry to document and analyze result of treatment. IEWP Team Bndicte Neven IEWP Chair France Michael Albert Secretary IEWP Germany Marina Ben Izhak IEWP Nurse Israel Tiarlan Sirait IEWP Study Coordinator Lead Leiden, Netherlands Patrick Gilbert IEWP Statistician Leiden, Netherlands Jeroen Knippenberg IEWP & CTIWP Data Manager Leiden, Netherlands EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy News IEWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP) The IDWP aim to promote and conduct educational activity and clinical investigation on all the topic concerning the diagnosis, the prophylaxis and the management of infectious complication following HSCT. The mission of the IDWP is to share the experience and develop cooperative study to increase education in the field of diagnosis, prophylaxis and treatment of infectious complication in HSCT patients. IDWP Members continue their scientific and educational activity in the field of: bacterial infections, viral infections, fungal infection including pneumocystis jiroveci infections, parasitic infections, vaccinations, protective environment and guideline from the area of transplant infectious diseases. IDWP Team Dina Averbuch IDWP Chair Israel Nina Knelange IDWP Study Coordinator Lead Leiden, Netherlands Lotus Wendel IDWP STUDY COORDINATOR Leiden, Netherlands Inge Verheggen IDWP Data manager Leiden, Netherlands Gloria Tridello IDWP Biostatistician Verona, Italy Juana Schwartz Mota IDWP Data Entry Clerk Pamplona, Spain EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy ECIL The IDWP is one of the four participating body to the , along withthe EORTC Infectious Diseases Group, the Supportive Care Group of the ELN, and the Immunocompromised Host Society. News IDWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Lymphoma Working Party (LWP) The LWP is devoted to advancing research and promoting education regarding the role of stem cell transplantation in the management of patient with lymphoid malignancies. The LWP is composed of a panel of expert on Hodgkin lymphoma and non Hodgkin lymphoma, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, T-cell lymphomas, mantle cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma and Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia. The panel is supported by the excellent help of Herv Finel and Irma Khvedelidze, Study Coordinators, and Ariane Boumendil, Statistician. The joint effort of the team ha resulted in a very active portfolio of ongoing study and numerous presentation in international meeting and publication in peer-reviewed journals. This includes both retrospective and prospective studies, a well a guideline and position papers. Follow u on Twitter @LymphomaWP_EBMT Learn more about the LWP The management of patient with lymphoma ha changed extraordinarily in the last 10-15 years. The advent of rituximab ha resulted in a significant improvement in the outcome of several type of lymphoma. More recently, a plethora of new agent with a very strong biological rational is becoming available for the treatment of patient with lymphoid malignancies. In parallel, advance in haematopoietic cell transplantation technology, such a reduced toxicity conditioning, haplo-transplantation, and CAR T cell therapy have improved the outcome and widened the applicability of stem cell transplantation in lymphoma, particularly for elderly patient and those without a matched donor. The challenge is to continuously define the appropriate place for stem cell transplant in the therapeutic algorithm of patient with lymphoma in concert with the novel pharmacological options. With the largest database of patient that have undergone a stem cell transplant for lymphoma combined with the expertise of the transplant community, the LWP is in a privileged position to contribute to this aim. LWP Team Ali Bazarbachi LWP Chair Member Global Committee Post-transplant pharmacologic modulation subcommittee Beyrouth, Lebanon Anna Ossami Saidy Secretary LWP Germany Jenni Davies LWP Nurse United Kingdom Herv Finel LWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Irma Khvedelidze ALWP & LWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Aleksandra Gavrilina ALWP, LWP, PDWP Junior Data Manager Paris, France Maud Ngoya ALWP, LWP, PDWP Biostatistician Paris, France EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy Events News LWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Subcommittees & Members Sascha Dietrich Member Germany Peter Dreger Member Germany Olivier Hermine Member France Chara Kyriakou Member United Kingdom Norbert Schmitz Member Germany Harry Schouten Member hematologie@mumc.nl Netherlands Anna Sureda EBMT President Congress Co-President Barcelona, Spain Alina Tanase Member Romania Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP) The PDWP aim to support research and education to improve the availability, safety, and efficacy of HSCT and other cellular therapeutic for child and adolescents; to engage and promote active co-operation with all EBMT working party treating child and adolescent in an effort to meet the total need of the full spectrum of paediatric HSCT patients; to initiate and perform prospective, collaborative, GCP-conform study for malignant and non malignant paediatric diseases; to develop further the close collaboration with expert from the Leukaemia/Chemotherapy national frontline study in order to define the optimal timing of HSCT and incorporate transplant recommendation into the disease-specific protocols; to implement the new regulation on paediatric medicine from the EMEA; to offer physician and nursing staff from small or new centre practical training and fellowship in experienced transplantation unit through a European Collaborative Paediatric HSCT network; to further develop established Paediatric Standards within the Accreditation Process through JACIE to guarantee and maintain a high quality of patient care and experience. PDWP Team Krzysztof Kalwak PDWP Chair Poland Katharina Kleinschmidt SECRETARY PDWP Germany Ida Bremer Ophorst PDWP NURSE CHAIRPERSON NG PAEDIATRIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Arnaud Dalissier PDWP, HWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Aleksandra Gavrilina ALWP, LWP, PDWP Junior Data Manager Paris, France Diane Bacabac ALWP, PDWP Junior Data Manager Paris, France Jacques-Emmanuel Galimard ALWP, PDWP, HWP, GoCART Biostatistician Statistical Committee Chair Registry Committee Paris, France Maud Ngoya ALWP, LWP, PDWP Biostatistician Paris, France Mouad Abouqateb PDWP, TCWP Biostatistician Paris, France Subcommittees & Members PDWP Organigram EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy Events News PDWP Subcommittee Goals and Action Plans PDWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP) The aim of the Transplant Complications Working Party is to conduct research a well a provide education and expertise on the subject of non-infectious complication after hematopoietic cell transplantation. The major field of interest of the TCWP are: Early complication e.g. graft failure, VOD/SOS, transplant-associated microangiopathy (TAM), other endothelial syndromes, impact of co-morbidities, toxicity of conditioning regimen and supportive care; Acute and chronic graft versus host disease all the aspect from risk factor through diagnosis to treatment; Late effect e.g. infertility, sexual dysfunction, secondary cancers, organ-specific late complications, quality of life. The TCWP is a transversal Working Party, covering complication occurring after transplantation for all the indications. Therefore, it performance is strictly related to collaboration with disease-specific working parties, and study directly dedicated to non-infectious complication should be performed either in or in close collaboration with TCWP. TCWP Team Zinaida Peri TCWP Chair Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Croatia Ivan Moiseev TCWP Secretary EARLY COMPLICATIONS AND REGIMEN-RELATED TOXICITIES SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIR TCWP Russian Federation Sophie Van Lancker TCWP Nurse Belgium Emmanuelle Polge ALWP, TCWP, GoCART Clinical Data Specialist Paris, France William Boreland TCWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Pascale Ambron ALWP, ADWP, TCWP DATA MANAGER Paris, France Christophe Peczynski TCWP, GoCART Senior Biostatistician Paris, France Mouad Abouqateb PDWP, TCWP Biostatistician Paris, France EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy Events News TCWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Subcommittees & Members Olaf Penack Graft-versus-host disease Subcommittee Chair TCWP Germany Hlne Schoemans Survivorship Subcommittee Chair TCWP Patient Engagement Taskforce Coordinator Belgium @Hschoemans Sophie Van Lancker TCWP Nurse Belgium Alberto Mussetti ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIR TCWP Spain Charlotte Graham CAR-T COMPLICATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIR TCWP United Kingdom William Boreland TCWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Christophe Peczynski TCWP, GoCART Senior Biostatistician Paris, France Related Organisations Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP) A new era of hemoglobinopathy treatment began 40 year ago when allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation provided the first cure for these genetic conditions. Over 10,000 patient have received transplant since then and currently, gene therapy is at the beginning of a new era. As a result, patient suffering from hemoglobinopathy now have several therapeutic option to choose from. In the new Hemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP), we have the potential to redefine transplant journey modality and compare different option in order to choose the best option for our patients. The main objective of the HWP will be to: Promote scientific activity by involving investigator around the world, especially from area where these disease are prevalent Collaborate closely with other WPs and Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease specialist and association Improve data collection quality with a view to long-term clinical benefit HWP Team Emanuele Angelucci HWP CHAIR Italy Josu de la Fuente HWP SECRETARY United Kingdom Sandrine Bremathas HWP NURSE United Kingdom Arnaud Dalissier PDWP, HWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Jacques-Emmanuel Galimard ALWP, PDWP, HWP, GoCART Biostatistician Statistical Committee Chair Registry Committee Paris, France EBMT Study Proposal and Selection Process Policy News HWP Publications List Guidelines, Consensus Statements, and Position Papers Studies Related document Subcommittees & Members Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Biostatistics in the EBMT Statistical expertise and support in the EBMT are provided by the group of Statisticians and the Statistical Committee. The statistician are employed either by the Paris or the Leiden Study Units. The Statistical Committeeis a group of scientist with a keen interest in biostatistics for stem-cell transplant, regardless of their employment by EBMT. The task of the Statistical Committeeis to safeguard the quality of methodological activity and education. The Paris and Leiden Study Units cooperate and exchange methodological knowledge, and work together in the Statistical Committee, to disseminate their knowledge throughout the EBMT. Support for EBMT Studies In the development of clinical research, the statistician is responsible of the adherence of the study to the methodological standard for sound scientific research. This is achieved by analyzing the data with proper statistical technique but more importantly by contributing to the planning of the study, interpretation and communication of the results, acting a scientific fellow of the Principal Investigator. EBMT Studies are conducted within the Working Parties and through the Paris and Leiden EBMT Data Offices. Proposals are evaluated and refined by the WP Chair and WP members, in collaboration with the data manager and the statistician The statistical analysis of an approved study is done by the WP statistician according to availability of resource and WP priorities. In some cases, the WP statistician might cooperate with an external statistician a advisor / reviewer. Planning Data Preparation Statistical Analysis Communication & Publication Statistical Tools & Software Guidelines, Consensus Statements & Position Papers Related Documents Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Annual Meeting & Educational Events The Annual Meeting of the EBMT is the most important annual event for research and education in the field of blood and marrow transplantation and cellular therapyin Europe. It attracts more than 5,500 participants, including international experts, scientists, physicians, nurses, statisticians, clinical research technicians, patient and processing laboratory personnel. Besides the Annual Meeting, the EBMT and it Working Parties, Committees and Groups put on specialised educational event throughout the calendar year, offering in-depth content for all of the sub-specialities within BMT. Read on to learn more and participate. Future Annual Meeting Dates 51st Annual Meeting of the EBMT Date: 30 March - 2 April 2025 Florence, Italy 52nd Annual Meeting of the EBMT Date: 22-25 March 2026 Venue: to be announced 53rd Annual Meeting of the EBMT Date: 11-14 April 2027 Venue: to be announced Upcoming Educational Events EBMT offer a range of educational event of varying duration and subject matter to it member and other interested parties. They vary from four-day residential course to specialist session during the Annual Meeting of the EBMT. Members of the EBMT can attend our Annual Meeting and Educational Events at the most discounted rate Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Past Annual Meetings of the EBMT Click on the following link to access information and resource from past EBMT Annual Meetings. Celebrating 50 Years of Community The 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT is taking place in the wonderfulcity of Glasgow from 14-17 April 2024. Come celebrate the remarkable achievement of the European and international transplant community over the past 50 years. Sign up today and showcase your research in front of thousands. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Country - Any -Afghanistanland IslandsAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntarcticaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBonaire, Sint Eustatius and SabaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBouvet IslandBrazilBritish Indian Ocean TerritoryBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurundiCabo VerdeCambodiaCameroonCanadaCayman IslandsCentral African RepublicChadChileChinaChristmas IslandCocos (Keeling) IslandsColombiaComorosDemocratic Republic of the CongoCongoCook IslandsCosta RicaCte d'IvoireCroatiaCubaCuraaoCyprusCzech RepublicDenmarkDjiboutiDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFijiFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaFrench Southern TerritoriesGabonGambiaGeorgiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuamGuatemalaGuernseyGuineaGuinea-BissauGuyanaHaitiHeard Island and McDonald IslandsHoly SeeHondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsle of ManIsraelItalyJamaicaJapanJerseyJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiNorth KoreaSouth KoreaKuwaitKyrgyzstanLao People's Democratic RepublicLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMicronesiaMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMontserratMoroccoMozambiqueMyanmarNamibiaNauruNepalNetherlandsNew CaledoniaNew ZealandNicaraguaNiger (the)NigeriaNiueNorfolk IslandNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalauPalestinePanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPeruPhilippinesPitcairnPolandPortugalPuerto RicoQatarRunionRomaniaRussian FederationRwandaSaint BarthlemySaint HelenaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaint MartinSaint Pierre and MiquelonSaint Vincent and the GrenadinesSamoaSan MarinoSao Tome and PrincipeSaudi ArabiaSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSint MaartenSlovakiaSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth Georgia and the South Sandwich IslandsSouth SudanSpainSri LankaSudanSurinameSvalbard and Jan MayenSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyrian Arab RepublicTaiwanTajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoTokelauTongaTrinidad and TobagoTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States Minor Outlying IslandsUnited StatesUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaViet NamVirgin IslandsVirgin Islands (U.S.)Wallis and FutunaWestern Sahara*YemenZambiaZimbabwe Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Diseases - Any -All diseasesAcute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)Chronic Myeloid Lymphoma (CML)Acute Lymphatic Leukaemia (ALL)Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL)Myelodysplastic (MDS) or MDS/MPNMyeloproliferative Neoplasm (MPN)Multiple Myeloma (MM) or other Plasma Cell Disorder (PCD)Hodgkins Disease (HD)Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL)Other myeloid or lymphoid malignanciesSolid tumorsBone marrow failureAuto immune disordersInherited disordersOther non-malignant disordersComplications: GvHDComplications: infectiousComplications: non-infectiousCOVID-19 Area category - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Event type - Any -EBMT Annual MeetingBusiness MeetingEducational MeetingTraining Course Date start Date end Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Country - Any -Afghanistanland IslandsAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntarcticaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBonaire, Sint Eustatius and SabaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBouvet IslandBrazilBritish Indian Ocean TerritoryBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurundiCabo VerdeCambodiaCameroonCanadaCayman IslandsCentral African RepublicChadChileChinaChristmas IslandCocos (Keeling) IslandsColombiaComorosDemocratic Republic of the CongoCongoCook IslandsCosta RicaCte d'IvoireCroatiaCubaCuraaoCyprusCzech RepublicDenmarkDjiboutiDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFijiFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaFrench Southern TerritoriesGabonGambiaGeorgiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuamGuatemalaGuernseyGuineaGuinea-BissauGuyanaHaitiHeard Island and McDonald IslandsHoly SeeHondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsle of ManIsraelItalyJamaicaJapanJerseyJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiNorth KoreaSouth KoreaKuwaitKyrgyzstanLao People's Democratic RepublicLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMicronesiaMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMontserratMoroccoMozambiqueMyanmarNamibiaNauruNepalNetherlandsNew CaledoniaNew ZealandNicaraguaNiger (the)NigeriaNiueNorfolk IslandNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalauPalestinePanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPeruPhilippinesPitcairnPolandPortugalPuerto RicoQatarRunionRomaniaRussian FederationRwandaSaint BarthlemySaint HelenaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaint MartinSaint Pierre and MiquelonSaint Vincent and the GrenadinesSamoaSan MarinoSao Tome and PrincipeSaudi ArabiaSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSint MaartenSlovakiaSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth Georgia and the South Sandwich IslandsSouth SudanSpainSri LankaSudanSurinameSvalbard and Jan MayenSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyrian Arab RepublicTaiwanTajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoTokelauTongaTrinidad and TobagoTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States Minor Outlying IslandsUnited StatesUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaViet NamVirgin IslandsVirgin Islands (U.S.)Wallis and FutunaWestern Sahara*YemenZambiaZimbabwe Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Diseases - Any -All diseasesAcute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)Chronic Myeloid Lymphoma (CML)Acute Lymphatic Leukaemia (ALL)Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL)Myelodysplastic (MDS) or MDS/MPNMyeloproliferative Neoplasm (MPN)Multiple Myeloma (MM) or other Plasma Cell Disorder (PCD)Hodgkins Disease (HD)Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL)Other myeloid or lymphoid malignanciesSolid tumorsBone marrow failureAuto immune disordersInherited disordersOther non-malignant disordersComplications: GvHDComplications: infectiousComplications: non-infectiousCOVID-19 Area category - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Event type - Any -EBMT Annual MeetingBusiness MeetingEducational MeetingTraining Course Date start Date end Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / Related Events & Partners The EBMT is part of the larger haematology and cancer research community and work in conjunction with partner across the globeto advance the fight against cancer and disease of the blood. Manyother organisation working in the field also offer high-quality educational event throughout the year. Related Events GvHGvL Meeting 2024 Regensburg, Germany 13-15 March 2024 GI-Oncology 2024 20th Interdisciplinary Update Wiesbaden, Germany 15 June 2024 57th Annual Meeting of the German Society for Transfusion Medicine and Immunohaematology (DGTI) & 31st Annual Meeting of the German Society for Immunogenetics (DGI) Dsseldorf, Germany 11-13 September 2024 22nd Meeting of the European Association for Haematopathology Croatia, Dubrovnik 21-26 September 2024 SIOP 2024 - 56th Congress of the International Society of Paediatric Oncology Honolulu, Hawaii, USA 17-20 October, 2024 ESH-EBMT-EHA 3rd Translational Research Conference onBone Marrow Failure and Leukaemia Predisposition Syndromes Paris, France 15-17 November 2024 Media Partners touchONCOLOGYandtouchHAEMATOLOGYare proud to be at the forefront of on-demand and virtual formats, pushing the boundary for online medical education. Learn more fromtouchONCOLOGY&touchHAEMATOLOGYand with CME-accredited and independent learning activity Watch highlight and coverage from leading international ONCOLOGY and HAEMATOLOGY congress Read the latest article from our peer-reviewed therapy journal and unique expert insight developed fortouchONCOLOGYandtouchHAEMATOLOGY Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Education EBMT and Education The EBMT Educational Programme The EBMT Educational Programme play a central role in advancing knowledge, promoting best practices, and fostering professional development in the field of Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT) and Cellular Therapies (CT) through: 1. Standardising education: The EBMT educational programme assumes a pivotal role in developing and standardising educational content on HCT and CT. By establishing consistent and high-quality educational materials, this programme actively contributes to providing healthcare professional across diverse region with a consistent level of education. 2. Keeping pace with advances: The field of HCT and CT is dynamic, with continuous advancement in research, technology, and clinical practices. The EBMT educational programme help learner stay abreast of these development by regularly updating educational material and providing healthcare professional with the latest knowledge. 3. Global collaboration: The EBMT educational programme facilitates collaboration by bringing together expert from diverse background to contribute to educational initiatives. This international perspective enriches the educational content with a broad range of experience and approaches, fostering a global community of healthcare professionals. 4. Promoting best practice and standard in the field: By disseminating guidelines, protocols, and best practice recommendation to ensure that the EBMT community ha access to the most updated educational materials. 5. Training future generations: An essential aspect of the EBMT educational programme is to contribute to the ongoing education of the next generation of healthcare professional in HCT and CT. 6. Addressing knowledge gaps: The EBMT is committed to identifying area where knowledge gap or emerging challenge may exist in HCT and CT and address them through targeted educational initiatives. 7. Continuous learning culture: The EBMT contributes to fostering a culture of continuous learning within the HCT and CT fields. By providing ongoing educational opportunities, the EBMT encourages healthcare professional to embrace lifelong learning, crucial in these rapidly evolving and complex field of HCT and CT. The EBMT Educational Task Force The EBMT educational task force is led by the Scientific Council chair and co-chair, the Scientific Council educational representative, and the EBMT Medical Officer and ensures the involvement of representative from all Working Parties, the Nurses group, the EBMT trainees, and JACIE to create a wide spectrum of educational content in HCT and CT and provide resource for professional development. The task force is also dedicated to keeping healthcare professional updated on the latest trend and advancement in the rapidly evolving field of HCT and CT while harmonising educational practice in Europe and beyond. The educational material provided will include a range of resource such a joint WP meeting recordings, featuring interactive Q&A session and live discussions, annual meeting recordings, topic-focused meeting a well a recommended publication and guidelines. The EBMT Exam Participating in the EBMT exam offer a multitude of benefit for healthcare professional striving to achieve high-quality education in the rapidly evolving field of HCT and CT. The EBMT exam will take place during the 51st edition of the EBMT Annual Meeting and will consist of multiple-choice question in English. Click to know more about the EBMT Exam! Educational Resources See below for information about the Resources we have produced, and the E-learning platform in the works. E-learning The e-learning platform is designedto reach all EBMT member interested in their continuing education. Together with the collaboration of the EBMT Working Parties, the topic of interest have been established and developed in order to realize the possibility of producing online courses. Members of EBMT are eligible for reduced fee for the EBMT Annual Meeting and educational event Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / EBMT Handbook The manual of choice for doctor and practitioner involved in Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT) and Cellular Therapies. This thoroughly revised second edition of the EBMT Handbook address the most recent development and innovation in HCT and cellular therapy, presented by more than 200 authors, known a expert and well-recognised authority in the field. Download it now in PDF for free via the button below. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / EBMT & JACIE Books The EBMT publishes the top international reference handbook on HCT and cellular therapy for clinicians, researcher and nurses. In addition, JACIE offer book for Quality Managers and Inspectors. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / E-learning The e-learning platform is designedto reach all EBMT member interested in their continuing education. Together with the collaboration of the EBMT Working Parties, the topic of interest have been established and developed in order to realize the possibility of producing online courses. The main advantage offered by online learning are the flexibility for each student to work when and where they want, and the possibility of connecting with a wide-reaching network of colleagues, peer and expert in the field. When selecting the resource and format for each course, not only ha an expert committee considered and developed the topic in question but a pedagogical strategy ha been implemented. The following are the very first resource that will be available in the platform for all EBMT members: Webinars: live online lecture about various topic of interest with question from the participant at the end of the webinar. Nurses e-course: Spanish version EBMT and LABMT e-course Data Managers e-course: focusing on CAR-T cell therapy EBMT Online Learning Course for Nurses:modular content based on the EBMT Textbook for Nurses. Chimera: the e-course from trainee for trainee Forum: a place to discuss, ask and network. Blood Matters - a Podcast for Nurses: an EBMT Podcast for Nurses and AHPs working instem cell transplantation and cell therapy. JACIE Accreditation e-course for Centres:open access course for centre who are starting, or already on, their JACIE Accreditation journey. Additionally, learner will earn a certificate of achievement upon completion of the e-courses that include an evaluation system. The e-learning platform is only available for EBMT members, but some course are also open to non-members. For any query please contact: View E-learning Courses and Webinars Accessthe E-learning platform Sponsorship There are various opportunity to support the EBMT E-learning initiatives. For more information, please send an email to Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb / EBMT Exam Participating in the EBMT exam offer a multitude of benefit for healthcare professional striving to achieve high-quality education in the rapidly evolving field of HCT and CT. Why should I take the Exam? Expertise validation The EBMT exam serf a a comprehensive assessment tool, validating the knowledge and expertise of healthcare professional in the field of HCT and CT. Successfully passing this exam indicates a high level of proficiency. Certify knowledge in HCT and CT The EBMT is a renowned international organisation. Attending it exam provides a recognised certification, enhancing opportunity for collaboration on a worldwide scale. Stay Current with Advances The field of HCT and CT is rapidly evolving. By participating in the EBMT exam, professional ensure they are continuously updated on the latest research findings, technological advancements, and treatment modalities. Professional advancement A successful outcome in the EBMT exam can significantly contribute to professional advancement. Healthcare institution recognise the importance of specialised certifications, and achieving this distinction demonstrates commitment to continuous learning, professional growth, and excellence. Quality Patient Care The knowledge learned to pas the EBMT exam will increase the quality care provided to patient undergoing HCT and CT. Who is the EBMT exam designed for? The EBMT exam is intended for haematologists, residents, fellows, or trainee in the HCT and CT fields. What are the learning materials? The learning material of the preparation for the EBMT exam e-learning course will be based on the newly released EBMT handbook, the backbone of the EBMT education activities. However, updated new educational resource will be uploaded regularly to theeducational library from April to December 2024. When and how? The EBMT exam will take place during the 51st edition of the EBMT Annual Meetingand will consist of multiple-choice question in English. Quality & Certification Quality assurance To guarantee the high scientific and educational standard of the examall question will be reviewed by expert in the field of HCT and CT. EBMT Official Certification Participants who pas the exam will receive an official EBMT certificate. More detail on the preparation course for the EBMT exam will be provided shortly! Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group The EBMT Nurses Group brings together nurse and allied health professional working in the field of haematology and HCT. The mission of the Nurses Group is to improve the care of our patient through evidence-based practice and to enhance and value the nursing role worldwide by supporting and sharing knowledge through communication, advocacy, research, training and education. What we do Educational Resources The development of excellent educational resource for nursing professional around the world is one of the top priority of the Nurses Group. In addition to the new EBMT Nurses Textbook, published for the first time in 2018, we have developed a series of online Learning Programmes and other material designed to improve patient care and share current knowledge and best practises. Members of EBMT are eligible for reduced fee for the EBMT Annual Meeting and educational event Nurses Group News Patient Engagement The EBMT Patient Engagement taskforce ha been created to promote the active participation of hematopoietic cell transplantation and cell therapy recipient within EBMT. The taskforce is composed of a multi-disciplinary team made of patients, caregivers, donors, healthcare provider and other stakeholder involved in transplantation and cell therapy. Patients & Donors page Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group - Who we are Over the last two decades, with the support of medical colleagues, BMT nursing ha grown rapidly and ha acknowledged the need for care of the patients, their family and donors. Nurses have been taking a leading role in the holistic care of patients; BMT nurse are involved in the decision-making process about treatment option for their patients, and they evidently contribute to an enhancement in their patients' quality of life. Learn more below about our Board, our Committees, and the National Groups and Regional Forums. The Nurses Group Board Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom Hilda Mekelenkamp President-Elect Nurses Group MEMBER NG SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Elin Ofverberg Secretary Nurses Group MEMBER NG GLOBAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE Sweden Nurses Group Committees The four Nurses GroupCommittees are subgroup of the EBMT NursesGroup dedicated to achieving the goal of the EBMT NursesGroup in specific areas. Click on each for more information. National Groups & Regional Forums There are currently 11 recognised national groups/regional forum affiliated to the EBMT NG, which aim to expand activity at a national and international level. Learn more about them by clicking on the link below. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Working Party Nurses Vital in keeping close contact with the EBMT Working Parties (WP) and their scientific agenda are the Working Party Nurses. WP Nurses manage both the nursing research and nursing education activity within the WP, under the supervision of the Research Committee (RC) and the Scientific Committee (SC) respectively. As such, WP Nurses contribute to the research and education agenda of the EBMT NG RC, SC and Working Party. In addition, WP Nurses offer support and guidance in the development of research study and educational initiative and promote opportunity for nursing research within the WP by collaboration and dissemination. Team Kelly Hennessy SAAWP Nurse United Kingdom Ariadna Domnech ADWP Nurse Spain Maaike de Ruijter CMWP Nurse Netherlands Ruth Clout CTIWP Nurse United Kingdom Marina Ben Izhak IEWP Nurse Israel Sophie Van Lancker TCWP Nurse Belgium Jenni Davies LWP Nurse United Kingdom Ida Bremer Ophorst PDWP NURSE CHAIRPERSON NG PAEDIATRIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Sandrine Bremathas HWP NURSE United Kingdom Main Activities To promote nursing research strategy and awareness within the WP To carry out research adding to the body of knowledge in appropriate area and make a contribution to the strategic development within both the EBMT NG RC and WP To support research and collaborative partnership To support dissemination of research finding through publication writing, teaching, and presentation at conference where appropriate To contribute to research within both the EBMT NG RC and WP, collaborating in the development of joint proposal and project work To promote nurse a investigator within research To assist in the development and delivery of educational initiative promoting nursing issues, in line with the EBMT NG and WP Any other appropriate duty a determined by the EBMT NG RC and SC Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group Research Committee The Research Committee is a group of clinical nurse and research specialist working to develop research projects, promote awareness of research activities, and facilitate/support active participation in research by EBMT-NG members. The Research Committee ha established itself with a number of projects, presentations, and publications. Examples of completed activity include a programme of work looking at adherence to oral medication, management of oral mucositis and a survey of guideline for management of CVCs. Current research project the NG-Research Committee are focusing on include: Management of related donor including ethical issue The management of ATG administration in JACIE-accredited centre Sexuality issue in stem cell transplant recipient and their partner Risk of infectious complication in adult patient after HSCT depending on the site of CVC insertion. Multi centre retrospective study in collaboration with the IDWP The role of nursing in the care of patient skin with cutaneous chronic Graft versus Host Disease (ccGvHD) post allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) Infection prevention and control nursing practice and training need assessment in BMT unit in Low and Middle Income Countries(LMICs) A cross sectional survey In collaboration with Global Education Committee and IDWP Variability of Nutritional Practices in Peritransplant Period after Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation: A Survey by the Transplant ComplicationsWorking Party of the EBMT. In collaboration with TCWP. Nurses Group Research Team Annika Kisch CHAIRPERSON NG RESEARCH COMMITTEE Sweden Lynn Leppla MEMBER NG RESEARCH COMMITTEE Germany Isabel Salcedo MEMBER NG RESEARCH COMMITTEE Spain Sabine Valenta MEMBER NG RESEARCH COMMITTEE Switzerland Simona Calza MEMBER NG RESEARCH COMMITTEE Italy Brian Piepenbroek SAAWP STUDY COORDINATOR LEAD Nurses Group Study Coordinator Lead Leiden, Netherlands Jarl Mooyaart CTIWP & Nurses Group Biostatistician Leiden, Netherlands Committee Objectives To lead on and coordinate the development of nursing research within BMT/SCT. To support member in developing their own research. To increase capacity for research within NG members. Activities Develop research protocol within the committee. Support Members to develop approved protocols. Collaborate with EBMT WPs to provide nursing input to their study and liaise with them for relevant NG studies. Publish and present result of completed work. Provide research knowledge through education and presentation to NG members. Upcoming project Review capacity for nursing field within MED A/B data collection form to facilitate more effective process for future research Increased collaboration with Pharma company Link nurse for each EBMT WP to work a part of the RC Nurses Handbook app Survey on safe transfer of patient from BMT to ICU in collaboration with the Paediatric Nurses Committee. Get involved If you would like to become involved in the activity of the group; if you have idea for future project or if you require help completing the form below please contact the . News Publications Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group Scientific Committee The Scientific Committee (SC) is a dedicated group of experienced nurse from all over Europe with specific interest in haematology and stem cell transplantation. They complement each other through their different specialties, from working a a nurse specialist, nurse coordinator or a a nurse on a hospital ward, apheresis unit, outpatient clinic and/or consultation unit. The Scientific Committee is responsible for the nurse-oriented scientific program at the EBMT Annual Meeting. This 4-day meeting take place every year in March or April in a different European country. The member begin planning the EBMT Annual Meeting in May. In November they meet again to review all the submitted abstract from nurse and allied health care professional who would like to present their research, nursing project or other developing work in the field of haematologic stem cell transplantation at the annual meeting. Nurses Group Scientific Team Marijke Quaghebeur CHAIRPERSON NG SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE Belgium Sandra Schoenfeld Member NG Scientific Committee Switzerland Daniel Kisielewski Next Generation Nurse Representative Germany Hilda Mekelenkamp President-Elect Nurses Group MEMBER NG SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Thomas Jzquel French EBMT Nurses Group Chair MEMBER NG SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE France Lorna Welsh Congress Local Nurse United Kingdom Committee Objectives The ambition of the Nurses Group is that all nurse and allied health care professionals, regardless of their experience within the field of haematologic stem cell transplantation, learn something new at the annual EBMT meetings. The aim is to empower them to bring home some improvement idea so that the quality of care is enhanced in their own practice. A second aim is to engender confidence in presenting a poster or oral session in both new and experienced nurse and allied health care professionals. Activities Meetings in person and communication by email to provide the EBMT Annual Meeting with a quality nurse-oriented scientific program Reviewing all the submitted abstract from nurse and allied health care professional who would like to present their research or project Upcoming project Preparing the nurse-oriented scientific program for the next EBMT Annual Meeting in Frankfurt in March 2019 Collaboration If you would like to become involved in the activity of the group, or if you have query or comments, please send an email to the Chair. News Publications Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group Paediatric Committee The Paediatric Nurses Committee wa established in 2008 within the Nurses Group of the EBMT. The committee is dedicated to improving the care of paediatric and adolescent haematology and stem cell transplantation patients. Nurses Group Paediatric Team Ida Bremer Ophorst PDWP NURSE CHAIRPERSON NG PAEDIATRIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Marjola Gjergji MEMBER NG PAEDIATRIC COMMITTEE Italy Maria Finch MEMBER NG PAEDIATRIC COMMITTEE United Kingdom Committee Objectives To promote, develop and share knowledge and experience between the paediatric nurse throughout Europe, developing country and within the EBMT. Activities Prepare and conduct the paediatric session at the EBMT Annual Meeting. Collaborate closely with the Paediatric Diseases Working Party on the annual Paediatric Meeting and Training Course for Paediatricians and Paediatric Nurses on HSCT. Encourage networking among European nurses. Collaboration in the Outreach Program. Upcoming project Study: Get involved If you would like to become involved in the activity of the group, or if you have idea for future project or other queries, please contact the Chair. News Publications Studies Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group Global Education Committee The Global Educational Committee in collaboration with the EBMT NG President, other Committees and various Nurse Groups, aim to coordinate and organize outreach meeting in cooperation with other non-profit association with the same mission in objectives. Together they coordinate and provide a range of educational activity for nurse and allied health professional within the field of Haematology and Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation. The committee will meet twice yearly, at the EBMT Annual Meeting in March/April and at the Board & All Committees Meeting in September/October. Nurses Group Global Education Team Julia Ruz Pato CHAIRPERSON NG GLOBAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE Quality Manager & JACIE Inspector Spain Elin Ofverberg Secretary Nurses Group MEMBER NG GLOBAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE Sweden Angela Leather MEMBER NG GLOBAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE United Kingdom Committee Objectives To play a key role in the organisation of educational HSCT Nursing event in low-and-middle-income countries, in collaboration with like-minded entities. Activities Designing the programme for the Nurses' Education/Training Day Cooperate with other non-profit association Contribute to fundraising for outreach mission Share information and update with the rest of the committee member and relevant collaborators. Upcoming project Upcoming study: Infection prevention and control nursing practice and training need assessment in BMT unit in Low and Middle Income Countries (LMICs) A cross sectional survey In collaboration with Global Education Committee and IDWP Collaboration If you would like to become involved in the activity of the group, or if you have idea for future project or other queries, please send an email to the Chair. News Publications Related document Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group Research Under the guidance of the NursesGroup Research Committee, the NursesGroup ha become more and more actively involved in pursuing it own clinical research agenda. A number of publication have resulted from this activity. Publications Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nurses Group Education The EBMT Nurses Group firmly belief that by investing more in research and education together with other EBMT Working Parties and Committees, care for patient can be improved. This form the basis of the group primary objectives. Furthermore, the Board ha taken the initiative to get more involved in the Educational Committee in order to work on combined education and contribute to the EBMT Handbook. Our educational project have included work on Immune Thrombocytopenia (ITP), Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML), Adherence and Compliance in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL), and Bone Health in Multiple Myeloma (MM), among others. Learning Programmes The EBMT Nurses Group ha developed a number of Learning Programmes on topic such a Immune Thrombocytopenia and CML that can be downloaded a module and studied at your leisure a E-learning programmes. Click on each to learn more and gain access to the materials. Practical Guides The Nurses Group ha also created several set of Practical Guides for nurse andhealth care professional on a variety of topic and in a variety of languages. Click the link below to access the materials. Immune Effector Cell for Nurses This new forum ha been created to provide Nurses and AHPs involved in the care of patient being treated with IEC Therapy with a platform to learn from and communicate with their colleague from around the globe. The forum not only includes multiple discussion spaces, but also news and update from The EBMT, and a bank of recommended publication and useful resource to support your professional practice. The goal of the forum is to create a community for professional working in IEC Therapy, to enable this goal we have made the forum open to EBMT member a well a non-members. Web Learning A number of the presentation from past event can be accessed online through various E-Materials platforms. Visit the link to the event that interest you. The EBMT Nurses Group publishes The EBMT Nurses' Textbook, the first book written for and by nurse working in the HSCT field. Webinars Beginning in April 2020, EBMT and LABMT will begin offering live webinars for nurses, hosted by experts, for all EBMT and LABMT members. Nurses Group Videos Other Educational Material The Nursing Group ha created and amassed a substantial amount of additional information useful to patient and practitioners. These guides, videos, document and presentation have been gathered in our document center and can be searched with filter by document type or event. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Nursing Events The EBMT Nurses Group organises, on a regular basis,events and trainingsfor nursing staff and other allied health care professionals, in order to optimize the treatment and care of adult and paediatric patient and their families. Specialist nurse and physician provide update on recent development andthe management of haematological disorders, a well a present on topic surrounding haematopoietic stem cell transplantation and clinical practice today. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb The Immune Effector Cell Forum Welcome to The IEC Forum! "I would like to invite nurse and AHPs working in the area of Immune Effector Cells to join the EBMT IEC forum. We are all in the position to learn from each other in this rapidly evolving area of cellular therapy. I am looking forward to seeing the forum develop." - Ruth Clout,Cell Therapy and Immunobiology Working Party Nurse. What is the aim of the forum? The aim of the forum is to create a global support network for nurse and allied health professional (AHPs) involved in the care of patient being treated or potentially being treated with Immune Effector Cell Therapy at all stage of the patient pathway. This will also include nurse and AHPs at referring centre and those with an interest in this area. This will be a predominantly web-based resource with area that are both publicly available and some password protected private section to foster an open dialogue where nurse and AHPs can seek peer support in a le public environment. What doe the forum Include? The forum is designed to be a space where professional working in the space of IEC can form a community and have open dialogue about their practice. To support this we have created forum space under a variety of topics, such as; referrals, toxicities, follow-up care, and late complications. Alongside these topics, member are encouraged to share and start their own discussions. We hope this space will provide you with opportunity to connect with your colleague from around the world, in a way you haven't been able to before. The field is ever-changing, to support our member we will be providing relevant update from The EBMT on the topic of Immune Effector Cells. These are all located in one space and are easily accessible for all member within the IEC Forum. Finding relevant publication is time consuming, to remedy this we have created a space where you will have access to a continuously evolving list of recommended publication on the topic of Immune Effector Cells. We are constantly updating this list and hope it will be of use to you and your practice. We encourage member to discus their thought on these publication in the forum space. We have included a space where you will be able to access a range of educational resource that our expert recommend for your professional development. Like all aspect of this forum, new and exciting resource will be added a the forum develops. How do I access the E-learning Platform? The IEC Forum is open to EBMT member and non-members on The EBMT E-learning Platform. To access the forum you will need to enroll a a user, you can refer to the tutorial below for help in doing this. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb About JACIE JACIE develops and maintain global standard for the provision of quality medical and laboratory practice in cellular therapy. Based on these standards, JACIE offer accreditation to transplant programme in order to encourage health institution and facility to establish and maintain quality management system impacting on all aspect of their activity and to engage in continuous improvement. JACIE's primary aim is to promote high quality patient care and laboratory performance in collection, processing and transplantation centre through an internationally recognised system of accreditation. JACIE is a committee of the EBMT, and a such is part of it fiscal and legal identity. Members are appointed by and accountable to the EBMT Board. The ISCT is represented through two member of the Committee. The JACIE name and logo are registered by the EBMT with the European Intellectual Property Office under registration number and respectively. Partners EBMT The European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) is a non-profit organisation based in Maastricht, The Netherlands, that wa established in 1974 in order to allow scientist and physician involved in clinical bone marrow transplantation to share their experience and develop co-operative studies. The EBMT aim to promote all aspect associated with the transplantation of haematopoietic stem cell from all donor source and donor type including basic and clinical research, education, standardisation, quality control, and accreditation for transplant procedures. ISCT Established in 1992, ISCT is the global steward fostering cell and gene therapy translation to the clinic. With a network of leading clinicians, regulators, researchers, technologist and industry partners, ISCT member have a shared vision to translate cell and gene therapy into safe and effective therapy to improve patient life worldwide. ISCT is the global leader focused on translational aspect of developing cell-based therapeutics, advancing scientific research into innovative treatment for patients. ISCT provides a unique collaborative environment that address three key area of clinical translation: Academia, Regulatory and Commercialization. Through long term strategic relationship with global regulatory agencies, academic institution and industry partners, ISCT lead the advancement of research into clinical adoption and standard of care. Comprised of over 2400 cell therapy expert across five geographic region and representation from over 60 countries, ISCT member are part of a global community of peers, thought leader and organization invested in cell therapy translation. For more information about the organization, key initiative and upcoming meetings, please visit:,. JACIE Process This objective of this document is togive an introduction to the JACIE standard and JACIE accreditation process. You will read about some background information, the JACIE Standards, JACIE Accreditation Process and the role of the inspectors. Collaboration JACIE, a part of the EBMT, ha regularly participated in project and other initiatives. Below is a list of project where JACIE and/or EBMT have contributed or are contributing. External Recognition from the European Union The JACIE Accreditation Programme wa supported in 2004 by the European Commission under the Public Health Programme 2003-2008 (Project No. 2003208). In a 2011 review of spending under the Public Health Programme, JACIE wa highlighted a an exemplary project: "The JACIE project is considered an outstanding example of how EU funding can facilitate the harmonisation, implementation and use of common standards. It is also outstanding in it continuing activity after the end of the project period and it success with regard to international collaboration and contribution to public health policy and regulation" (p.79) Download the report below. National Regulations & Guidelines To learn more about how JACIE accreditation is implemented in and incorporated into the national regulation andguidelines of individual country and international bodies, visit our Regulations & Guidelines page below. JACIE Annual Activity Reports JACIE Annual Activity Reports are included within the EBMT Organisation Annual Reports Suggestions, queries, complaint In order to support the quality and continuous improvement of the JACIE accreditation programme, we encourage you to contact u with suggestions, query or if would like to report any incident or complaint. When a query or complaint is received, an acknowledgment of receipt will be issued, stating the date of receipt. Next, JACIE will investigate the incident and provide you with an accurate and detailed response of our findings. Where issue are identified, JACIE will endeavour to resolve them a soon a possible and to ass measure to avoid their repetition in the future. If you have any suggestions, query or would like to report any complaints,please clickthe Contact u button below and complete the form and the JACIE Office will respond to you shortly. Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb JACIE Standards The Standards are the cornerstone of the JACIE accreditation program. Believing that quality care can only be achieved if both clinical and laboratory issue are effectively addressed, the FACT-JACIE Standards are the only set of requirement that include both clinical and laboratory practices. The Standards currently apply to Hematopoietic Progenitor Cells (HPC) obtained from bone marrow, peripheral blood, and umbilical cord blood. JACIE Standards Editions Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb 8th edition of FACT-JACIE Standards See and other information on the 8th edition. The FACT-JACIE International Standards for Hematopoietic Cellular Therapy Product Collection, Processing, and Administration, eighth edition includes hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPCs), nucleated cell or mononuclear cell from any hematopoietic tissue source collected for therapeutic use other than a HPCs, immune effector cell (IECs), and genetically modified cells. This the sixth collaboration to publish comprehensive quality-based Standards in cellular therapy between the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy (FACT) and JACIE, the Joint Accreditation Committee of ISCT and EBMT of the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT). FACT wa founded in 1996 by the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) and the International Society for Cell and Gene Therapy (ISCT), published the first edition of Hematopoietic Cell Standards that year, and initiated the North American inspection and accreditation program based on these Standards in 1997. JACIE wa established in 1999, adopted the first edition of FACT Standards, and jointly reviewed the second edition in 2002. Subsequent edition of Standards have been jointly developed, approved, and published by FACT and JACIE. The objective of the FACT-JACIE International Standards for Hematopoietic Cellular Therapy Product Collection, Processing, and Administration is to promote quality medical and laboratory practice in hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation and therapy using hematopoieticderived cellular products. FACT-JACIE Standards are unique in depth and breadth, being applicable to all phase of cell collection, processing, storage, transportation, and administration, and to all phase of clinical application including standard of care therapy and products, product administered under regulatory-approved clinical trials, and licensed (or other regulatory approval) products. Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Applicants Accreditation is the mean by which a centre can demonstrate that it is performing a required level of practice in accordance with agreed standard of excellence and certify that it operates an effective quality management system. If you are applying to JACIE for first time or for a re-accreditation, you are encouraged to download and read the JACIE Applicants Guide. The Applicants Guide give a general overview of the JACIE Accreditation process - taking you from the initial stage of thinking about applying for JACIE, through the Inspection process, to achieving JACIE Accreditation. For those looking for guidance in establishing a Quality Programme in their center, the Quality Management Guide is designed to assist in the development and maintenance of a Quality programme for the area of Peripheral Blood and Bone Marrow Stem Cell Transplantation. Additionally, on the 20/10/2023 JACIE launched an e-learning course designed for centre who are starting, or already on, their JACIE accreditation journey - whether this be for the first or fifth time. This course aim to help all staff working in centre feel more confident in preparing for and undergoing the JACIE Inspection by addressing many of the frequently asked questions. JACIE make use of the Sharepoint environment to share document with inspector and centres: in order to conduct a process JACIE offer a license free of cost for Office 365. There is a guide available for the user to check their access to the Microsoft Office 365 services. How to apply The step to apply for accreditation are: Submit an application form. Sign the Accreditation Agreement with the EBMT Submit the pre-inspection documentation Go through the on-site inspection & receive the Inspection Report Attend to reporting and corrective action (where these are indicated) Receive accreditation and maintain accreditation For first-time applicants, the form and checklist give JACIE the necessary information to ass if your centre is eligible for accreditation and to understand the structure of your centre or programme and relationship with other institutions. For renewal applications, you may submit the Inspection Checklist at a later stage of the reapplication process, together with the pre-inspection documentation. Note that it is always important to start completing the checklist before you submit the application form to reduce the amount of time required when preparing the inspection documentation. Note thatAccredited Centres are no longer required to submit an Annual Report. They are, however, required to proactively inform JACIE of any change in their centre or to their program. More information and the Changes Form are available in Step 6 on the. Translation of Center's document Documents should be in the language spoken in your centre since JACIE would expect to assign inspector that speak and understand that language. However, there may be exception to this: Centre is located in a country where no inspector are available; OR JACIE may not have inspector anywhere that speak the centre language; OR The transplant community in a given country ha requested that only external inspector be assigned, to avoid conflict of interest In these cases, we must resort to other inspector to perform the inspection. For these inspectors, one of the key part of their preparation is reading document made available in advance. Without these documents, it is very difficult for them to arrive on-site adequately prepared, and this would clearly affect the quality of the inspection. In such cases, JACIE will ask the centre to translate a selection of the document provided to the inspector in advance of the inspection and will request the centre to provide local expert to facilitate interview and understanding of documentation. Please contact the Accreditations Coordinator at if you have any concern at all about this part of the process. English/Spanish Glossary of term The Alliance for Harmonisation of Cellular Therapy Accreditation (AHCTA) and Worldwide Network for Blood & Marrow Transplantation (WBMT) along with the Latin American Group for Bone Marrow Transplantation (LABMT) have facilitated the preparation of a simple glossary of quality management terminology to help create awareness and understanding of basic but important quality management terminology among Spanish-speaking transplant professionals. External consultant There are many provider and company offering consultancy service for implementing quality management in healthcare. Many offer preparation for JACIE accreditation among their services. These provider usually offer their service in return for a fee paid by the hospital. While it is recognised that such provider often perform valuable service and enable transplant programme to prepare themselves for accreditation, it should be noted that neither JACIE nor EBMT endorse individual providers. Any organisation that is considering using such service should inform itself fully about providers' capacity, knowledge and experience in the same way a it would ass any other service. Quality Managers For centre that are member of the EBMT, the standard membership fee of 900 per annum includes a quality manager at no additional cost. Check with your team, and if you are not already included, ask your Principal Investigator to request the EBMT Executive Office to add you to the membership listing by writing to . Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Inspectors Inspectors are the backbone of JACIE; without them, there is no accreditation process. Becoming an inspector is a wonderful way to contribute to maintaining global quality standards, and we offer a discount on accreditation for centre whose staff have participated in an inspection event(s) in the 4 year prior to submission. List of registered JACIE inspector Access the most up-to-date list of JACIE inspector below, organized by city, country and inspector area(s). This list is updated monthly. Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb How to Become an Inspector An inspector shall have the following characteristics: an openminded approach to inspection and standards; a commitment to JACIE (standards, processes, deadlines); team spirit; and good communication and interpersonal skills. Read on to learn more about the qualification to become an inspector and to understand the task an inspector performs, then follow the step to apply. Minimum Qualifications Each inspector shall have completed a training course for new inspectors, passed the associated exam based on the Standards and complete periodic inspector training module a prepared by JACIE. The inspector shall complete and sign a statement to the effect that she/he is qualified by medical/scientific training and experience to be a JACIE inspector. The inspector is recommended tobe a member of ISCT, EBMT, or similar society or association. JACIE is happy to consider candidate to be inspector who have retired from their day-to-day clinical or laboratory duties, up to 5 year from their retirement date. There are also additional minimum qualification for the following type of inspectors: Clinical Transplant Program Inspector The inspector shall hold a medical degree, be currently licensed to practice medicine, and be specialist-trained and certified in one of the following: Haematology, Medical Oncology, Paediatric Immunology, or Paediatric Haematology/Oncology Evidence of a minimum of five year of clinical blood and marrow transplant experience in a consultant/specialist role (periods of intern/resident training are not considered). JACIE may request a clear breakdown of period managing transplant patient and/or written confirmation of experience from a supervisor. Haematopoietic Progenitor Cell Collection Facility Inspector The inspector shall hold a medical degree or degree in a relevant science and five year experience in haematopoietic cell collection procedures, including apheresis. If a physician, be currently licensed to practice medicine. Or, shall have five year experience a the nurse or technician supervising the collection of peripheral blood progenitor cell by apheresis. Cell Processing Laboratory Inspector The inspector shall hold a medical degree or PhD or a professional degree in biological science or medical technology Five year experience a a Laboratory Director, Medical Director, or Supervisor of an HPC Laboratory. Quality Management Inspector The inspector for Quality Management shall have 3 year experience a a Quality Manager in an accredited centre or in preparing a centre for accreditation Provide a letter from the Programme Director confirming this experience Be able to show evidence (documented) of continuous education and training in quality management. This can include internal and external training. The Inspector's Job Description can be useful to understand the role and task that an inspector carry out. Steps to apply 1. Access and completethe online Inspector Registration Form below, then please sendcopies of your relevant medical qualification and a short version (including experience) of your CV to the JACIE offices. Submit your document by mail, or emailto JACIE: JACIE Accreditation Office EBMT Executive Office Edifici Dr. Frederic Duran i Jord Passeig Taulat, 116 08005 Barcelona (Spain) Email: 2. Complete a JACIE Inspector Training Course 3. Complete the JACIE Standards Exam. This is an open-book exam with no time limitations. While you must complete the first part and any other section(s) of the exam, you will only be considered an inspector if you achieve a pas mark in the area that you have indicated on the Inspector Registration Form and for which you are suitably qualified through experience and training. Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb JACIE Inspector Handbook This Handbook is the best reference for inspector to help guide them through all the stage of a JACIE inspection. JACIE inspector are volunteer who work in the field of stem cell transplantation in clinical, quality management (QM), nursing or scientific roles. There are specific entry requirement for would-be inspector and defined job description for the different inspector role (Clinical, Collection, Processing and QM). Some inspector may be qualified to inspect more than one area. For example, a clinician might be qualified to inspect both clinical and collection facilities. All inspector are asked to commit to 1-2 inspection per year. The JACIE approach to using volunteer subject-matter experts, ha been vital to the transplant community accepting and embracing the inspection process, a the inspector are part of the community and peer of the clinician and Allied Health Professionals (AHPs) working within the centres. This ha also allowed the transplant community to use JACIE to educate Centres on quality management system working and best practice within the field of cell therapy. Moreover, it ha helped to standardise practice and support an ethos of continuous improvement within transplant programmes. This handbook is intended to be a ready reference for inspector to help guide them through the task and responsibility throughout all stage of a JACIE inspection. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Current Inspectors The following public list of JACIE inspector is monthly updated. Inspection Documents Inspections & Interim Audit The following resource detail the inspection process and will facilitate your participation in inspections, a well a provide information about continuing education. Logistics Our travel agency, BCD Travel, will get in contact with the inspector after the JACIE office confirms the inspection date. They might request some information (departure city, any restrictions) and will propose an itinerary and accomodation that the inspector need to confirm. Inspectors are always requested to arrive the previous evening. JACIE make use of the Sharepoint environment to share document with inspector and centres: in order to conduct a process JACIE offer a license free of cost for Office 365. There is a guide available for the user to check their access to the Microsoft Office 365 services. Additional Guides & References There are additional guide and handbook relating to quality management available in the Document Centre. You can also peruse the list of external resource we have compiled. Inspectors Online Forum A LinkedIn group dedicated to JACIE inspector ha been set up. Note that access is only offered to registered inspectors. The Group's success depends on how willing member are to participate, so please feel free to raise question and generate discussion. Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Inspector Committee The JACIE Inspector Committee (JIC) is an important committee promoting the JACIE Accreditation Programme by helping to develop strategy for maintaining and improving the high level and quality of inspection making recommendation for retaining a committed, high performing pool of inspector and recruiting new inspectors. Inspectors are the backbone of JACIE and the accreditation process, providing their time and expertise voluntarily. The committee ha an influential role within the JACIE Accreditation Process in term of advancing the inspection process, the inspector pool and in the strategic support for continuing training and education. Inspector Committee Team The JIC consists of a Chair plus a group of expert representing the different area based on the expertise of JACIE inspectors: Clinical Adult Transplant, Clinical Paediatric Transplant, Haematopoietic Progenitor Cell Collection, Cell Processing and Quality Management (see below) Eugenia Trigoso Arjona Chairperson Inspector Committee Spain Quality Management Inspector Committee Objectives Contribute to the development of the inspection format, including inspector team composition, checklist and onsite inspection format. Making recommendation for retention strategy in order to strengthen the pool of JACIE inspector and maintain a high performing pool of inspectors. Making recommendation for development of continuing training and education both online and in-person training formats. Committee Members Aurora Vassanelli MEMBER INSPECTOR COMMITTEE Italy Processing and Quality Management Inspector Christopher Dean Dalley INSPECTOR COMMITEE MEMBER United Kingdom Clinical and Collection Inspector John Fitzgerald INSPECTOR COMMITEE MEMBER Ireland Quality Management Inspector Lynn Manson JACIE Committee Chair Chairperson Accreditation Committee Inspector Commitee Member United Kingdom Collection Inspector Sandra Loaiza INSPECTOR COMMITEE MEMBER Accreditation Committee Member United Kingdom Processing Inspector Dania Arabi Inspector Committee Member Accreditation Committee Member Saudi Arabia Processing and Quality Management Inspector Fabio Culurgioni INSPECTOR COMMITTEE MEMBER Italy Processing and Quality Management Inspector Olga Lpez Villar Inspector Committee Member Accreditation Committee Member Spain Collection, Processing and Quality Management Inspector Renza Monteleone QM Member of the JACIE Accreditation Committee INSPECTOR COMMITEE MEMBER Italy Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb JACIE Education JACIE organises regularinspector and centre training courses. If you are interested in JACIE training, please write to or register directly from the individual event page. Read more about the training format below: JACIE Accreditation e-course - check out built for for centre who are starting, or already on, their JACIE accreditation journey JACIE Inspectors Webinars- The JACIE Inspector Committee ha launched a series of session offered to inspector starting in June 2021. The webinars are periodical you can see the . E-learning -The e-learning platform is designed to reach all EBMT member interested in their continuing education. You will find. EBMT Annual Congress - the congress feature a dedicated JACIE session and the wider Quality Management Meeting addressing a variety of topics. JACIE Educational Materials Explore a variety of material from past events, a well a other training document that have been produced by the department. Access a sample below, or see the Document Centre for more. 22-05-2017 JACIE and Regulations in Europe and worldwide: Talk given a part of the 2nd Kaunas International Haematology/Oncology Colloquium "New treatment modalities: molecular and cellular therapies" (Kanaus, Lithuania) 25-06-2014 Basic introduction to JACIE accreditation for Latin American transplant centre (in Spanish) Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb The EBMT Registry The EBMT Registry, established in 1974, is the backbone of the EBMTs research and educational activities. It provides a pool of data to haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) healthcare professional to perform studies, ass epidemiological trends, and ultimately improve the care of patient with haematological malignancy and other life-threatening disorders. As of 2023, the EBMT Registry ha acquired data on over 700,000 patient that received an HCT procedure a well a data on over 4,000 patient that received CAR T-cell therapy. All thanks to the reporting done by our members, who in order to retain full EBMT membership status, they must report all consecutive HCTs each year. The EBMT Registry contains patient clinical data, including aspect of the diagnosis and disease, first-line treatments, HCT or cell-therapy-associated procedures, transplant type, donor type, stem cell source, complication and outcome. Patients are followed up indefinitely. Basic donor information is included with these procedures, and donor follow-up data can be entered by the transplant centre (or Donor Registry, for unrelated donors). All EBMT Registry study are performed under the supervision of the EBMT Working Parties. EBMT Membership EBMT member centre have access to the EBMT Registry. Find out how your centre can become a member of the EBMT. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Information for Patients & Donors Improving patient life is the ultimate objective of the EBMT community. While we are not a patient organisation, we are focused on strengthening our connection with patient by making relevant EBMT information more accessible and further explaining the role of important EBMT resource such a The Patient & Donor Registry and our JACIE accreditation body. This page is designed to introduce you to some of the material that we hope will be of interest. COVID-19 and BMT Patients In the context of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the EBMT provides you with an array of useful information and resources. EBMT Registry The EBMT Registry is the largest patient database of it kind in Europe. Since 1974, it ha gathered information on haematopoietic stem cell transplantation procedures, with explicit permission from patients, and provides a pool of data to EBMT member to perform studies, prepare trials, and further knowledge in the field. Its ultimate aim is to improve quality of life and outcome for patients. Patient Privacy Statement Do you want to know more about the Registry? Watch this video Patient Engagement Patients, caregivers, donor and health care professional (HCPs) have complementary strength and a common goal: optimal outcome after transplantation and cell therapy. The EBMT Patient Engagement taskforce ha been created to promote the active participation of hematopoietic cell transplantation and cell therapy recipient within EBMT. Patient Advocacy The EBMT established the Patient Advocacy Committee to ensure that patient perspective are integrated in EBMT activities. Patients and patient advocate involved in HSCT and who are interested in the activity of the EBMT can become Individual Members at a reduced fee JACIE Accreditation information What doe JACIE accreditation mean for patients? JACIE accreditation offer patient reassurance that a transplant unit is working in line with international standard and ha undergone a rigourous inspection process. JACIE establishes minimum requirement for facilities, education and training, quality management, donor and patient management and care, and good cell collection and laboratory practice. Endorsed by the expert JACIE is a joint initiative of the European Group for Blood & Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) and the International Society for Cellular Therapy (ISCT), the two leading scientific organisation in the area of cellular therapy. Both association are not-for-profit entities. International standard JACIE Accreditation is based on the FACT-JACIE International Standards that are prepared by leading expert from North America, Europe and other regions. National regulation JACIE accreditation ha been incorporated into national regulation in several European country and is included in a number of national guideline for bone marrow transplantation. In 2004, JACIE received support from the European Union (EU). An independent review of the EU-funded project from that period highlighted the success of JACIE and it importance. Experience JACIE ha received application from centre and facility in more than 20 country in Europe, Africa and Asia and ha performed more than300 inspection since 2000. JACIE inspector are all expert in the BMT field. Publications Patient Guides & Documents The following is a list of guide and material produced by the EBMT specifically for patients, donors, and their families, a well a a number of external resource that may be useful for patient and donors. Donor Links The World Marrow Donor Association (WMDA) ha a wealth of information useful for donor and patients. Here at the EBMT, our Donor Outcomes Committee is dedicated to collecting robust data on donor outcome and developing recommendation based on that data. Visit the corresponding page to learn more. Patient Association List There are a number of patient association that can provide a wealth of information and knowledge about haematopoietic stem cell transplantation procedures. Peruse the list below to find one in your country or area. Advocacy Advocacy for patient and implicating ourselves in the legal and regulatory environment in which we work ha become an increasingly important focus for the EBMT. The EBMT Legal & Regulatory Affairs Committee ha been established to focus on and coordinate action around these issues, and we are currently participating in four important initiatives: Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) consultation on advanced therapy HARMONY project that aim to foster better access and care for patient with various haematologic malignancy with the use of big data. Partnership agreement between the ONT; EBMT and FACT aimed at ensuring ongoing improvement and the utmost quality in all the clinical procedure necessary for conducting HSCT. Meeting between the EBMT and DG SANTE -evaluation of the existing tissue and cell legislation that will begin during 2017 Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Patient Engagement Taskforce The mission of the EBMT Patient Engagement Taskforceis to promote active, collaborative participation of patients, donors, caregiver and health care professional a partner in the society's activities. The taskforce is a multi-disciplinary team of clinicians, researchers, other healthcare professionals, patients, caregivers, donors, and other stakeholder involved in transplantation and cell therapy. Patient Engagement Taskforce Core Team Hlne Schoemans Survivorship Subcommittee Chair TCWP Patient Engagement Taskforce Coordinator Belgium @Hschoemans Bregje Verhoeven Netherlands @BregjeVerhoeve1 Nicolaus Krger General Representative EBMT Shanghai Office Registry Committee, HCT representative Hamburg, Germany Linda J Burns CIBMTR United States Individual Members Scroll down the page to view the list of individual members. Objective Patients, caregivers, donor and health care professional (HCPs) have complementary strength and a common goal: optimal care and therapyoutcomes. The taskforces objective is to offer a platform to promote interaction between patients/caregivers and healthcare provider and show the added value of such an approach. This initiative should lead to new common integrated pathway within EBMT to improvethe whole transplantation and cell therapy process. Activities EBMT 47th Annual Meeting Oral presentation of the abstract This presentation will be available on-demand throughout the congress. For more information, please check the . Special Session SS01: Sunday, March 14, 16:00 - 17:30, Auditorium 6 Plenary Session P3: Wednesday, March 17, 14:30 - 15:45, Auditorium 1 The full content from these session will remain available in the On-Demand Library until May 17, 2021 in the virtual meeting platform. After that date most of the content will be available for the EBMT Members on the e-Learning platform. 15th Patient, Family & Donor Day - Recorded presentation Other upcoming project EBMT Patient Reported Outcome Registry Project Provide patient-specific educational material (FAQ webpage, webinars, etc.) Promote collaboration with member of the Increase patient/caregiver/donor contact database Strategy The task force meet on a regular basis with engaged representative from multiple stakeholder group to discus current projects. A collaboration with the and other patient engagement initiativesis also ongoing to promote international synergy. Achievements Pan-European umbrella patient organisation Need help to get started ?If your organisation is missing from the list below, please send u an email and we will add you on. Pan-European disease-specific organisation Organisations giving support in patient engagement in research If your initiative is missing from the list below, please send u an email and we will add you on. EU initatives involving patient in hematology / cellular therapy If your initiative is missing from the list below, please send u an email and we will add you on. Patient support group linked to HCT and cellular therapy Taskforce Members Hlne Schoemans Survivorship Subcommittee Chair TCWP Patient Engagement Taskforce Coordinator Belgium @Hschoemans Bregje Verhoeven Netherlands @BregjeVerhoeve1 Nicolaus Krger General Representative EBMT Shanghai Office Registry Committee, HCT representative Hamburg, Germany Linda J Burns CIBMTR United States Bronwen Shaw CIBMTR United States John Murray EQUALITY, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (ED&I) COMMITTEE DEPUTY CHAIR United Kingdom @johnerniemurray Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom Sarah Hutton PATIENT ADVOCACY COMMITTEE MEMBER United Kingdom Sabina De Geest Nurse Switzerland Guy Bouguet PATIENT ADVOCACY COMMITTEE MEMBER France @lymphomeespoir Andrea Linke PATIENT ADVOCACY COMMITTEE MEMBER Germany Natacha Bolaos PATIENT ADVOCACY COMMITTEE CHAIR Spain @BolanosNat Chris Lewis Patient Advocate United Kingdom Founder of Chris's Cancer Community @christheeagle1 Zinaida Peri TCWP Chair Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Croatia John Snowden Member JACIE Committee United Kingdom Anna Barata Psychologist Moffit Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida, United States Isabelle Scholl Psychologist Universittsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany @IsabelleScholl Cristina Avendao Sol Puerta de Hierro University Hospital, Madrid, Spain William Boreland TCWP Study Coordinator Paris, France Emmanuelle Polge ALWP, TCWP, GoCART Clinical Data Specialist Paris, France Anja van Biezen Business Unit & EU Grants Manager Leiden, Netherlands Iris Bargall Arraut Data Protection & Quality Manager Barcelona, Spain Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu A unique registry. A vibrant scientific community. Fighting life-threatening blood cancer and disease and improving patients' lives. Science Education Patient Care EBMT Become a Member of the EBMT and gain access to the only database of it kind in Europe EBMT News Highlights Patient Care & Donor Information Access a variety of material and information compiled with patient and donor in mind. Fast Facts Patients 702,579 In the Registry Transplants 826,418 In the Registry Patients treated with CAR T-cells 5,000+ in the Registry Accreditations 214 JACIE-accredited centre EBMT Partners Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu A unique registry. A vibrant scientific community. Fighting life-threatening blood cancer and disease and improving patients' lives. Science Education Patient Care EBMT Become a Member of the EBMT and gain access to the only database of it kind in Europe EBMT News Highlights Patient Care & Donor Information Access a variety of material and information compiled with patient and donor in mind. Fast Facts Patients 702,579 In the Registry Transplants 826,418 In the Registry Patients treated with CAR T-cells 5,000+ in the Registry Accreditations 214 JACIE-accredited centre EBMT Partners Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Search Follow on Twitter Event landing menu Toggle main menu visibility 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT 14-17 April 2024 | Glasgow Celebrating 50 Years of Community Attendance at the 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT in 2024 is your opportunity to connect with cutting-edge scientific content related to transplantation and cellular therapy, network with thousand of top healthcare professional from all over the world, and celebrate the remarkable achievement of the European and international transplant community over the past 50 years.... Join our Scientific Community in Glasgow The Annual Meeting of the EBMT is a congress for all those involved in the care of transplant and cellular therapy patients. There will be dedicated session for physicians, nurses, data managers, statisticians, quality managers, cell therapists, paediatricians, pharmacists, psychologists, psychiatrist and psychoanalysts, transplant coordinators, lab scientists, trainees, and patients. 5,500+ Expected Attendees 1,000+ Abstract Submissions 100+ Countries Represented Rewatch the Congress On-Demand until June Missed a session or presentation? Unlock the On-Demand Content from the 50th Annual Meeting and watch the recording via the Virtual Meeting Platform or the EBMT 2024 Appuntil 17 June 2024 at 23:59 CEST. Download the Official EBMT 2024 App The EBMT 2024 App is the best tool to help you enjoy our 50th Annual Meeting from your mobile device. Click below to download it from the Apple App and Google Play stores! Explore the Scientific Programme The Local Organising Committee, together with the EBMT Scientific Council, ha designed an outstanding programme to cover key issue relating to HCT and cellular therapy research. Watch EBMT TV's Daily Episodes and Interviews EBMT TV produced daily episode from the 50th Annual Meeting featuring conference news and in-depth report in collaboration with the international film and broadcasting company WebsEdge. Visit EBMTs YouTube channel (@TheEBMT) to watch all the episode and interviews. Learn more about our Annual Meeting The Annual Meeting of the EBMT ha a rich history of over 49 years. We will celebrate the 50th anniversary of our Annual Meeting in Glasgow at the Scottish Event Campus. Learn more about the congress venue and the Annual Meeting by clicking below. Quick Links Read the latest EBMT 2024 news Certificate of Attendance and CME Points Certificate of Attendance The Certificate of Attendance will be available within the Virtual Meeting Platform after the and sent via email to all all participant who attended the congress on the final day of the 50th Annual Meeting (Wednesday, 17 April 2024). In order to download your Certificate of Attendance, we kindlyask you to complete our short satisfaction survey. We recommend that you complete the survey using a computer in order to download the Certificate of Attendance successfully. EBMT can only issue certificate for the last five editions. For more information, contact secretariat@ebmt.org CME Accrediation The programme of the 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT, to be held in Glasgow, United Kingdom, from 14 - 17 April, 2024, ha been reviewed andapprovedfor CME accreditation by the European Board for Accreditation in Hematology (EBAH) CME Unit. The EBAH-CME Unit ha approved this educational activity for a maximum number of26.5EBAH-CMEcredit pointsand the time spent by the participant in the educational activity will be tracked for this purpose. All participant may print an EBAH-CME certificate, indicating the number of EBAH-CME credit point awarded, directly from the CME section of the EBAH website at. EBMT certifies that the content of this CME event are without advertisement and that the content are presented scientifically and neutral. We certify that speaker and author disclose potential conflict of interest appropriately. Watch the On-Demand Content from the 50th Annual Meeting and watch the recording via the Virtual Meeting Platform or the EBMT 2024 App. Thank you for your interest in our 50th anniversary! Please note that some session and presentation are pending review and that some speaker may not consent to the publication of their content on-demand. The platform and the on-demand content will remain available until 17 June 2024 at 23:59 CEST. Download the Official Annual Meeting App It is the best tool to help you plan each day at our 50th Annual Meeting. From inside the app you can access the virtual meeting platform a well as: Easily save session to create your own personal daily agenda. Receive reminder for upcoming presentations. Browse through the scientific programme, ePosters, faculty, exhibitors, sponsors, floor plan and more! Post Your Memories on Social Media with #EBMT24 Share your favourite moment from the 50th Annual Meetingand add to the conversation on social media! Include #EBMT24 and tag @TheEBMT in your posts. Check out Meeting Organisers EBMT Executive Office +34 93 453 8570 CME Congresses Useful Links Stay Updated Subscribe to our News & Updates list to get the latest information about our 50th Annual Meeting and other EBMT news and events. 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Share: Breadcrumb / 3rd Joint ASTCT+EBMT Basic and Translational Scientific Meeting Date: 15 May 2024 - 17 May 2024 Event type: Educational Meeting City: Washington DC Country: United States The Joint ASTCT + EBMT Basic and Translational Scientific Meeting isa 2.5-day conference focused on cutting-edge basic and translational biology in the field. The meeting will focus on fundamental theme and novel technology with an emphasis on unpublished and innovative science. Attendance to the meeting will be limited to 100 attendee with afternoon break to allow for informal networking opportunity between junior and senior attendees. The meeting will host two day of poster session and a best oral abstract session. Please click the button above and access the most updated preliminary programme. Abstract submission is closed. ASTCT and EBMT are now accepting abstract for the 2024 ASTCT + EBMT 3rd Joint Basic and Translational Scientific Meeting that is taking place in Washington, D.C. on May 15 - 17, 2024. The abstract submission window will close onFriday, March 15th at 5:00 p.m. CT. Abstract Submission Criteria Abstracts will be scored based on the following criteria: Importance and Relevance: Is a clear rationale for the work provided? Does the study address an important question? Do it finding have the potential to advance the field of blood and marrow or cellular therapies? Originality and Innovation: Is the work novel? Does it present new finding and/or address a problem using an original or improved approach? Quality of Methods and Writing: Are method well described and valid to answer the question? Is the abstract clear and well written? Is the abstract within the 300-word limit? Please note that the abstract submission form doe not have a tracker for word count. We recommend that you prepare your abstract submission in a Word document to confirm that you stay within the 300-word limit. The top-scoring abstract will be selected a Oral Platform Presentations; top-scoring abstract that are not selected for Oral Platforms will be selected a Distinguished Posters. Responsibility of Abstract Authors The Presenting Author is responsible for the following: Ensuring that all author have read the abstract and agreed to be co-authors. Notifying all co-authors of any additions, deletions, and change to the program, a may be communicated by the Joint ASTCT-EBMT Basic and Translational Scientific Retreats. Obtaining all of the conflict-of-interest disclosure information from co-authors. Making certain that abstract are complete (tables included and labeled) and written in clear, concise and grammatically correct English, so that reviewer are able to focus solely on the scientific merit of the submission. For author with any question regarding the clarity, grammar or spelling of their abstract, we encourage identifying and using an independent reviewer to edit the abstract prior to submission. Please contactwith any question regarding your submission. When you begin your submission, you will be asked to "Name this Entry", please use this section to include the high level topic/area/theme that your submission will address. Registration fee REGISTRATION RATES PRICE Standard Registration 400USD Trainee & Junior Faculty 275USD Allied Health Professionals 275USD *Junior attendee are defined a post doctoral fellows, current fellows, and junior faculty within the first three year of appointment. Registration to this event is limited to a maximum of 100 total attendees. We are unable to accept additional registrant once the registration capacity ha been met. This conference is only for physician and scientist who arecurrentlypracticing in the field of transplantation and cellular therapy and sponsoring companies. Please contact Angie Dahl () if you are interested in participating a a sponsor. Meeting Venue Hilton Washington D.C. National Mall the Wharf 480 LEnfant Plaza SW Washington D.C. 20024 (202) 484-1000 Registered attendee will receive the housing link to secure discounted room rate in their official registration confirmation email. Room Rate $329.00 plus tax per night (single/double). The room rate will increase by $20 per night for additional people. Housing Rate Cutoff To take advantage of the discounted room rate, be sure to book your reservation on or beforeApril 24, 2024. After April 24, the room block will be released and the negotiated room rate may not be available. Please make sure the hotel is aware of any special needs. They will assign specific room type and any other request based on availability. Deposits Please have your credit card information on hand upon booking your reservation. TheHilton Washington D.C. National Mall the Wharfrequires each individual reservation be guaranteed with a deposit equal to one night's room and tax. Changes or Cancellations TheHilton Washington D.C. National Mall the Wharfrequires that you cancel your reservation (72) hour prior to your arrival. The deposit of one night's room and tax will be forfeited for cancellation made le than (72) hour from arrival. Please call the hotel directly to make a cancellation and keep your cancellation confirmation number for your records. Name change can be made to reservation any time prior to check-in, without incurring a fee. Confirmations The hotel will send you a confirmation to the email used in booking your reservation using the customized online reservation link provided by ASTCT-EBMT. Review it carefully for accuracy and keep a copy for your records. Nearby Things To Do Discover the, from event happening right now to annual festival and so much more. This conference is only for physician and scientist who arecurrentlypracticing in the field of transplantation and cellular therapy and sponsoring companies. Please contact Angie Dahl () if you are interested in participating a a sponsor. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Share: Breadcrumb / / EBMT support the International Thalassaemia Day 7 May 2024 by EBMT Organization // Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP) By Emanuele Angelucci, Haemoglobinopathies Working Party Chair As is widely recognised, thalassaemia stand out a one of the most significant and devastating health challenge globally, contributing to ten of thousand of new case each year. Over the past decade, the prognosis of thalassaemia ha undergone a remarkable improvement, thanks to the collective effort of researchers, doctors, and patient associations. This collaborative endeavour ha transformed thalassaemia from a once lethal childhood disease into a manageable chronic condition, characterised by a prolonged survival and open prognosis. However, this progress necessitates substantial medical resources. For over three decades, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ha offered a potential cure for patient with transfusion-dependent thalassaemia, albeit with constraint such a donor availability and procedural risks, particularly among adult patients. Recently, the long-envisioned prospect of gene therapy ha transitioned from theoretical discussion to tangible reality in clinical trials, presenting itself a a promising option for patients. In 2023, the EBMT established a dedicated Working Party focusing on haemoglobin disorders, including transfusion-dependent thalassaemia and sickle cell disease. The Haemoglobinopathies Working Party strives to promote the global dissemination of curative treatment modalities, such a transplantation and gene therapy, enhance clinical research endeavours, formulate indication criteria, and improve the standard of care. Currently, six study are underway, with many more in the pipeline. The is deeply committed to fostering close collaboration with thalassaemia specialist and patient associations. Recognising that true optimisation of patient care can only be achieved through the amalgamation of efforts, knowledge, and enthusiasm, the Working Party endeavour to identify the most suitable treatment option for each patient, at the right time. "Empowering Lives, Embracing Progress: Equitable and Accessible Thalassaemia Treatment for All" encapsulates the shared objective of all medical association engaged in this complex and compelling healthcare domain. Watch the interview of representative from the HWP who discus howtreatment ha developed over the last 40 years, the current treatment landscape and why they feel hopeful for patient in the future. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Share: Breadcrumb / / 2024 Election Results 23 April 2024 by EBMT Organization Nurses Group // Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP) Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP) Lymphoma Working Party (LWP) All eligible to vote Principal Investigators (591) from EBMT full membership centre were invited to vote online for the nominated, endorsed and approved EBMT Secretary and Working Party Chair candidate for 2024, in addition to approving the activity report (President, Secretary and Treasurer). Voting took place online from Friday 5 April until Monday 15 April 2024. 169 ballot submitted of 591 eligible voter = 29% participation. Please see the result of this online election below: EBMT Secretary EBMT Secretary - Raffaella Greco Yes - I approve the candidate 164 vote (99.39%) No - I reject the candidate 1 vote(0.61%) Yes - I approve the candidate win with 99.39% of the vote. (165 vote tallied and 4 abstentions) "It is a great honour and privilege for me to be elected a Secretary to the Executive Committee of EBMT. Im highly motivated to contribute to the core activity of EBMT, fostering cross fertilisation, inclusion, innovation, promotion of knowledge, basic and clinical research, education, registry, guidelines, standardisation, quality control, and accreditation for transplant and cellular therapy procedures. Central mission is to save the life of patient with blood cancer and other life-threatening disease by advancing these field worldwide through science, education and advocacy. These are all value in which I totally reflect myself and I am honoured to promote them in our community." EBMT Working Party Chairs EBMT Autoimmune Diseases Working Party Chair - Tobias Alexander Yes - I approve the candidate 148 vote (95.48%) No - I reject the candidate 7 vote (4.52%) Yes - I approve the candidate win with 95.48% of the vote. (155 vote tallied and 14 abstentions) "I am honoured to have been elected for the position of Chairperson of the ADWP. I am a rheumatologist at the Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology at the Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin and I have been working a the ADWP Secretary for the past 8 years. With the recent introduction of CAR-T cell therapy and other targeted cellular therapies, a new era in the treatment of severe autoimmune disease ha begun. For our community of autoimmune disease experts, along with haematologist and clinical immunologists, the challenge now is to integrate these new therapeutic option into the changing landscape of autoimmune disease treatments. I am looking forward to driving forward, alongside colleague and involvement of patient advocate and patient representatives, academic output from our working party. I am convinced that the resource of the ADWP and the EBMT overall, will be highly relevant to this evolution." EBMT Infectious Diseases Working Party Chair - Dina Averbuch Yes - I approve the candidate 137 vote (95.80%) No - I reject the candidate 6 vote (4.20%) Yes - I approve the candidate win with 95.80% of the vote. (143 vote tallied and 26 abstentions) "Adequate diagnosis, prevention and management of transplant infectious complication is of paramount importance to improve patient outcome following hematopoietic cell transplantation or CAR-T therapy. In the IDWP we believe that our collaborative effort to study infection in HCT patient and to share experience will enrich our knowledge in the field and help our patients." EBMT Lymphoma Working Party Chair - Ali Bazarbachi Yes - I approve the candidate 153 vote (99.35%) No - I reject the candidate 1 vote (0.65%) Yes - I approve the candidate win with 99.35% of the vote. (154 vote tallied and 15 abstentions) "I am deeply honored to have been elected a the Chair of the EBMT Lymphoma Working Party (LWP). The LWP is one of the largest and most crucial working party of EBMT, serving a one of it pillars. With your support and trust, I anticipate leading it and collaborating with all those who want to contribute to it success. The LWP will be open to all interested parties, and my mandate should not be perceived a an individual effort because achieving our goal requires a well-structured team effort." EBMT Nurses Group EBMT Nurses Group President -Hilda Mekelenkamp Yes - I approve the candidate 41 vote (97.62%) No - I reject the candidate 1 vote (2.38%) Yes - I approve the candidate win with 97.62% of the vote. (42 vote tallied and 3 abstentions) "It is an honour to have been elected a president-elect of the Nurses Group, and I am grateful for the trust. I will be eager to promote a supportive and collaborative environment within EBMT, specifically for the nursing community, where professional and patient can share experience and best practice to improve patient care continually. I envision an empowered, united nursing community at the forefront of advancing health care. Together, we can strengthen our professional roles, optimise care for patient with blood-related diseases, and promote positive change in nursing practice." EBMT Nurses Group Secretary - Elin fverberg Yes - I approve the candidate 41 vote (97.62%) No - I reject the candidate 1 vote (2.38%) Yes - I approve the candidate win with 97.62% of the vote. (42 vote tallied and 3 abstentions) "It is a great privilege to be the new EBMT Nurses Group Secretary. I have been following the Nurses Groups work for many year before I became a part of the NG Global Education Committee in 2022. Now I am very excited to start a journey in my new role a NG Secretary. I believe that the EBMT Nurses group is important for the strengthening of Nurses and nursing in the field of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant, and I am proud to be a part of the future work of this group. As a Pediatric Nurse from a country with a small population, I have learned that we need each other across Europe and beyond. We need to network and collaborate. We need each other moving forward, with strong teamwork and clear goal and with our patient a our number one focus." EBMT Activity Reportsand Bylaw Amendment In addition to voting online for the nominated candidates, PIs were also asked to approve the President's, Secretary's and the Treasurer's report and the Bylaw Amendment Approval of Articles 8, The Treasurer and 9, Working Parties, in advance of the Annual General Assembly Meeting 2024. EBMT President's Activity Report 2023 Yes - I approve the President's Activity Report 2023 164 vote (99.39%) No - I reject the President's Activity Report 2023 1 vote(0.61%) Yes - I approve the President's Activity Report 2023 win with 99.39% of the vote. (165 vote tallied and 4 abstentions) EBMT Treasurer's Annual Report for 2023 Yes - I approve the Treasurer's Annual Report for 2023 158 vote (99.37%) No - I reject the Treasurer's Annual Report for 2023 1 vote(0.63%) Yes - I approve the Treasurer's Annual Report for 2023 win with 99.37% of the vote. (159 vote tallied and 10 abstentions) EBMT Secretary's Annual Report for 2023 Yes - I approve the Secretary's Annual Report for 2023 156 vote (98.11%) No - I reject the Secretary's Annual Report for2023 3 vote (1.89%) Yes - I approve the Secretary's Annual Report for 2023 win with 98.11% of the vote. (159 vote tallied and 10 abstentions) Bylaw Amendment Approval of Article8 Yes - I approve the amendment 156votes (99.36%) No - I reject the amendment 1 vote(0.64%) Yes - I approve the amendmentwins with 99.36% of the vote. (157 vote tallied and 12 abstentions) Bylaw Amendment Approval of Article 9 Yes - I approve the amendment 146 vote (92.41%) No - I reject the amendment 12 vote (7.59%) Yes - I approve the amendmentwins with 92.41% of the vote. (158 vote tallied and 11abstentions) Outgoing Board Members We would like tothank the following outgoing Board Members for their support and commitment to the Scientific Council and Board of Association during their mandates: John Snowden, EBMT Secretary, Member of the EBMT Executive Committee and Member of the Board of Association 2020-2024. Raffaella Greco,EBMT Autoimmune Diseases Working Party Chair from 2020-2024, Member of the Board of Association representing the Scientific Council with the Education Portfolio from 2022-2024, Practice Harmonisation Committee Vice-Chair. Rafael de la Cmara,EBMT Infectious Diseases Working Party Chair from 2020-2024, Member of the Board of Association representing the Scientific Council with the Registry Portfolio from 2022-2024. Bertram Glass, EBMT Lymphoma Working Party Chair from2020-2024. Daphna Hutt, EBMT Nurses Group Secretary from2020-2024. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Share: Breadcrumb / / Awards at the 50th Annual Meeting of the EBMT 22 April 2024 by Research Nurses Group Events Transplant Activity Survey // Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP) Lymphoma Working Party (LWP) Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP) Quality Managers Committee Pharmacist Committee Nursing Research Committee Nursing Scientific Committee Nursing Paediatric Committee Nursing Global Education Committee Activity survey office OPENING CEREMONY HONORARY MEMBERS:Arnon Nagler and Jane Apperley EBMT 2024 Honorary Membership Arnon NaglerEBMT 2024 Honorary Membership Jane ApperleyCLINICAL ACHIEVEMENT AWARD:Achilles Anagnostopoulos and Anne Parker EBMT 2024 Clinical Achievement Award Achilles AnagnostopoulosEBMT 2024 Clinical Achievement Award Anne ParkerDISTINGUISHED MERIT AWARD: Helen Baldomero and Jakob Passweg EBMT 2024 Distinguished Merit Award Helen Baldomero & Jakob PasswegEBMT PHYSICIANS AWARDS VAN BEKKUM AWARDtoLeslie Kean (United States) for the abstract EBMT 2024 Van Bekkum Award Leslie Kean (right)BASIC SCIENCE AWARDtoHaroon Shaikh (Germany) for the abstract EBMT 2024 Basic Science Award From left to right:Charlie Craddock; Anna Sureda; Grant McQuaker; Haroon ShaikhJIAN-JIAN LUAN AWARD FOR LYMPHOMA TRANSPLANT RESEARCHto Nora Liebers (Germany) for the abstract EBMT 2024 Jian-Jian Luan Award Bertram Glass (left) &Nora Liebers (right)JON J. VAN ROOD AWARDto Francesca Del Bufalo (Italy) for the paperGD2-CART01 for Relapsed or Refractory High-Risk Neuroblastoma EBMT 2024 Jon J. van Rood Award From left to right: Jrgen Kuball; Francesca Del Bufalo; Annalisa Ruggeri; Florent MalardJON J. VAN ROOD AWARDto Gabriele Casirati (United States) for the paperEpitope editing enables targeted immunotherapy of acute myeloid leukaemia DIETRICH NIETHAMMER AWARD toFrancesca Del Bufalo (Italy) for the presentation titled: CAR-T cell for relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma a hype or hope? EBMT 2024 Dietrich Niethammer Award From left to right:Katharina Kleinschmidt; Francesca Del Bufalo; Krzysztof KalwakDIETRICH NIETHAMMER AWARD to Robert Chiesa (United Kingdom)for the presentation titled:Base edited CD7 CAR-T cell therapy in relapsed T-ALL EBMT 2024 Dietrich Niethammer Award Robert ChiesaBEST YOUNG ABSTRACTS EBMT 2024 Best Young Abstracts Award11 BEST YOUNG ABSTRACT AWARDS Nico Gagelmann (Germany) - Christo Tsilifis (United Kingdom) - Haroon Shaikh (Germany) - Christo Tsilifis (United Kingdom) - Quentin Riller (France) - Mustafa Gven (Turkey) - Laura M. Moser (Germany) - L Marie Czech (Germany) - Lin Li (China) - Yishan Ye (China) - Qiaomei He (China) - 5 BEST YOUNG POSTER AWARDS Jia Chen (China) - Sarah Weischendorff (Denmark) - Sheng Chen (China) - Juan Fernando Gamboa Vargas (Germany) - Filippo Frioni (Italy) - SPRINGER NATURE POSTER AWARDS EBMT 2024 Springer Nature Poster Awards: Maria Ester Bernando & Shu Ping WongBest Clinical Poster AwardtoShu Ping Wong (Malaysia) - Best Basic Science Poster AwardtoMaria Ester Bernardo (Italy) - EBMT NURSES GROUP AWARDS 16thDISTINGUISHED MERIT AWARDto Daphna Hutt EBMT 2024 Nurses Group 16th Distinguished Merit Award Michelle Kenyon (left)and Daphna Hutt (right)HONORARY MEMBER 2024toTheo Nering Bgel EBMT 2024 Nurses Group Honorary Membership Michelle Kenyon (left)and Theo Nering Bgel (right)BEST ADULT ORAL PRESENTATIONABSTRACT AWARD toKathy Goris (Belgium) - BEST PAEDIATRIC ORAL PRESENTATIONABSTRACT AWARDtoKatie Elwig (United Kingdom) - BEST RESEARCH ORAL PRESENTATIONABSTRACT AWARDto Lotte Kinds(Belgium) - EBMT 2024 Nurses Group Best Research Oral Presentation Lotte Kinds & Michelle KenyonBEST ADULT POSTER PRESENTATIONABSTRACT AWARDto Debbie Anderson(United Kingdom) - EBMT 2024 Nurses Group Best Adult Poster Debbie Anderson & Michelle KenyonBEST PAEDIATRIC POSTER PRESENTATIONABSTRACT AWARDtoAnnette Hill (United Kingdom) - EBMT PHARMACISTS AWARDS BEST PHARMACISTS' ABSTRACTS AWARDtoKhalil Ben Hassine (Switzerland) for the abstract EBMT 2024 Pharmacists Best Abstract Award Nick Duncan (left) &Khalil Ben Hassine (right)BEST PHARMACISTS' ABSTRACTS AWARD to Heather Weerdenburg (Australia) for the abstract EBMT 2024 Pharmacists Best Abstract Award Heather WeerdenburgBEST PHARMACISTS' ABSTRACTS AWARD toSara Redondo (Spain)for the abstract EBMT 2024 Pharmacists Best Abstract Award Sara RedondoEBMT QUALITY MANAGEMENT AWARD BEST QUALITY MANAGEMENT ABSTRACT AWARDto Florence Mesnil (France) for the abstract EBMT 2024 Best Quality Management Abstract Award Florence Mesnil (left) & Lynn Manson (right) Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu EBMT Annual Report 2022 Our Society Anna Sureda EBMT President Foreword by the EBMT President 2022 wa a very productive year for the EBMT community. Anna Sureda is looking back at what EBMT achieved in term of science, education and patient care. She is also taking the opportunity to thank all the party involved: the EBMT Staff, Board, centre and individual members, our partner from around the world for their constant work and dedication to our society. Last year, 2022, wa a very productive one for the EBMT community. We were ready to see each other again and for the so-called new normal but, disappointingly, thein Prague had to switch to a virtual meeting. Although, that did not stop us. During the second half of last year, EBMT ha been successful in bringing many of u together at event across Europe. Theas well a the have been very well attended and have represented an excellent opportunity for in-person networking and interaction. My sincere gratitude go out to all the active member of the Trainee Committee that have naturally incorporated a rejuvenated flavour to all these activities. But a I write this message, I cannot help but get excited about the which will be hosted in Paris and online from 23-26 April 2023. I hope you all choose to attend either in-person or virtually. Another significant part of our activity in 2022 have consisted of the promotion and the development of scientific, educational and partnership opportunity related to the use of CAR T-cells. There ha been an exponential increase in reporting CAR T-cell therapy and we can very proudly say that we have reached more than 4,000 CAR T- cell treated patient within the EBMT Registry (visit our webpage for more information). Moreover, the successful resolution of with three new winning projects, together with the increasing number of retrospective analysis being performed under the umbrella of the EBMT Working Parties will, without any doubt, bring additional research and help improve the management and long-term follow-up of this new treatment modality in Europe. Also worth mentioning is the fact that EBMT ha managed to keep the positive opinion of EMA regarding the cellular therapy module. The are actively being conducted by our society with five of them ongoing of four additional one in the start-up/contracting phase. As you can see with all our activities, we are keen on staying at the forefront of this rapidly evolving field. Partnerships and collaboration have also represented a major asset for our community. During our regular meeting with the representative of the National Societies for haematopoietic cell transplantation and cellular therapy, we have fostered a deeper level of interaction and closer communication, finished the governance charter of the EBMT-EHA , consolidated our educational activities, and harmonised the accreditation process for CAR T-cell centre together with our industry partners. EBMT and EHAs collaboration ha also been crystallised at the which propelled both society to host a wonderful hybrid meeting in Rotterdam in February of this year (). Nonetheless, the collaborative spirit of EBMT go beyond European borders. The Joint Scientific Retreat from EBMT and ASTCT ha been one of the best examples; three day of excellence, sharing of knowledge, learning about challenging concepts, and giving scientific and career advice. Likewise, the collaboration with China wa amplified last year with theheld in November 2022. In addition, we have witnessed an increasing number of Chinese centre becoming full member of the EBMT a well a their scientific collaborative output. It brings me great joy to know our community is growing and our activity are having a greater impact year after year. In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the devastating impact it had on civilian and patient in the affected regions, EBMT immediately set up an initiative called the. It ha been continuously active throughout 2022 and ha constructed a discussion forum of potential candidate for cellular therapy strategies. Unfortunately, though, the war continues. Last year, 2022, ha left many dead, many family divided, and others homeless. It continues to constitute one of the most important humanitarian crisis in recent years. EBMT will continue to support the Ukrainian people always from the mission and vision of our society and we will continue to encourage the transfer of scientific knowledge among all our members. JACIE, after the pandemic, had clear challenge to resolve. However, I have already seen a high level of enthusiasm and commitment of everyone involved to find solution to these challenge and current processes. Their work doe not go unnoticed. The JACIE team completed 64 full inspection out of the 80 initially expected. Moving forward, the second EBMT benchmarking exercise ha paved the way for a second manuscript (published in March 2023). Yet, the feasibility, acceptability and reliability of the system ha been supported and the limitation have been identified. I cannot wait to see the impact JACIE and it team will have in 2023. Looking ahead, we must remain committed to completing our current project but at the same time, also embrace and execute new ones. Certainly, each one of u is concentrating on the EBMT Registry upgrade project, which will be launched late summer of 2023. Plus, we will focus on the recently EU funded project which will unquestionably strengthen the link between EBMT and the National Registries/Societies in term of data harmonisation and sharing. We are also passionately working on finalising EBMTs Strategic Plan for 2023-2026, which emphasis renovating and upgrading the way EBMT is approaching Science, Education and Quality of Care and Accreditation in order to make the society more aligned with our partner and stakeholder needs. Still, none of these achievement could have been possible without your collaboration and efforts. I would like to express my sincere appreciation to all the EBMT Staff, EBMT Board, EBMT centre and individual members, plus all our partner from around the world for your constant work and dedication to our society. With a strong community, our story in 2023 can be even more successful. Thank you very much! Anna SuredaEBMT President Read more Read le EBMT Annual Report 2022 Science This introduction to the scientific report is always a little reflection of what ha happened and what we a a scientific society achieved. Most importantly, COVID-19 lost it horror of a pandemic and turned into one of those recurrent viral infections... . Working Parties Activity Reports More in science Committees Activity Reports EBMT Annual Report 2022 Education For the EBMTs Education and Events Department, 2022 wa the start of the new normal. We started the year with three virtual Working Party meetings, held by theCellular Therapy & Immunobiology, Chronic Malignancies, and Severe Aplastic Anemia Working Parties. InFebruary, EBMT and EHA jointly organised the fourth edition of the European CAR T-cell Meeting. It wa the second fully virtual edition of this event, due to concern regarding a winter COVID wave... . Educational activity Committees Activity Reports EBMT Annual Report 2022 Patient Care & Advocacy Improving the care of our patient is a critical objective of the EBMT. We believe in empowering, advocating and amplifying the interest of patients, survivors, and caregiver worldwide. Be sure to catch up on the activity of the Nurses Group, JACIE, the GoCART Coalition and the EBMT Legal & Regulatory Affairs Committee throughout this past year. Patient Care & Advocacy Initiatives Committees Activity Reports Financial Report & Highlights 2022 During the last four year a EBMT Treasurer, the EBMT substantially secured it financial model, which allowed the investment in strategic mission goal and the creation of a continuous reserve of income for the society, strategic project and staff positions... Our Society Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb News & Updates form Your browser doe not support iframes, but you can visit Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Area - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Document type Corporate (Annual reports, minutes, ToRs, etc.)Forms, Checklists & TemplatesGuidelines, Consensus Statements & Position PapersNewsletterPress ClippingPress ReleaseProtocol/Study informationTraining/Education MaterialsTraining/Education Presentations & AbstractsUser guides/Instructions Event type - Any -EBMT Annual MeetingBusiness MeetingEducational MeetingTraining Course Creation date Language - Any -EnglishArabicCroatianCzechDanishDutchEstonianFinnishFlemishFrenchGermanGreekHebrewItalianJapaneseLithuanianMandarinNorwegianPolishPortugueseSlovenianSpanishSwedishTurkish Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb The EBMT Textbook for Nurses New translation of the EBMT Nurses Textbook to Italian, French, and German are now available! A Spanish translation is also coming soon. This Open Access Second Edition textbook, endorsed by the EBMT, provides adult and pediatric nurse with a full and informative guide covering all aspect of transplant nursing including a new chapter dedicated to cellular therapy, nursing implication and care. This book take the reader from basic principle to advanced concept on a journey through the history of transplant nursing, including essential and progressive element to help nurse improve their knowledge and benefit the patient experience, a well a a comprehensive introduction to research and auditing methods. This second edition specifically intended for nurses, complement the EBMT Handbook, a popular educational resource originally developed in 2003 for physician to accompany an annual training course also serving a an educational reference tool in it own right. This title is designed to develop the knowledge of nurse in transplantation. It is the only one of it kind written by nurse experts, specifically targeted at nurse in this specialist field and acknowledges the valuable contribution that nursing make to patient care in this area. This new volume present updated content that is essential for the education of nurse new to transplantation, while also offering a valuable resource for more experienced nurse who wish to refresh their knowledge. Translations of the Texbook: Acknowledgements: Italian Translation The EBMT and the EBMT Nurses Group would like to sincerely thank the following individual from the Italian Nurses Group for their important role in translating the second edition of the EBMT Textbook for Nurses: Stefano Botti Simona Calza Chiara Cannici Francesca Palmisano Giorgia Gobbi Alfonso Parisi From the Italian Nurses Group: Gruppo Italiano Trapianto di Midollo Osseo Nursing Group (GITMO NG) French Translation The EBMT and the EBMT Nurses Group would like to sincerely thank the following individual from the French Nurses Group for their important role in translating the second edition of the EBMT Textbook for Nurses: Cristina Baina Caroline Bompoint Natacha De Bentzmann Thomas Jezequel Sophie Porcheron Stphanie Schmitt Sylvie Tarillon From the French Nurses Group: Groupe Francophone de Infirmiers et Coordinateurs de Greffe de Moelle (GFIC-GM) German Translation The EBMT and the EBMT Nurses Group would like to sincerely thank the following individual from the German Nurses Group for their important role in translating the second edition of the EBMT Textbook for Nurses: Cornelia DudaOle SturmJulia MattareiMichaela KornAnke JhnkeAnke Acosta HerediaTina KaiserKathrin SchifferEva- Maria KummererRomina LangeAleksandra TrojanTalea JacobsenAngelika BiekerKatharina JalinkDaniel KisielewskiLea Papadopoulos From the German Nurses Group: Deutsche Arbeitsgruppe KMT / SZT der Pflegenden Spanish Translation The EBMT and the EBMT Nurses Group would like to sincerely thank the following individual from the Spanish Nurses Group for their important role in translating the second edition of the EBMT Textbook for Nurses: Francisco Xos Romn Losada Isabel Salcedo de Diego Eugenia Trigoso Arjona Cristina Gallego Millares Julia Ruiz Pato From the Spanish Nurses Group: Grupo de Enfermera del Grupo Espaol de Trasplante Hematopoytico y Terapia Celular (GETH-TC) EBMT Online Learning Course for Nurses The EBMT Nurses e-learning program ha been transformed from the successful EBMT Nurses Textbook and ha been developed by and for nurse with an interest in Haematopoietic Cell Transplantation. It brings together the knowledge of nursing leader in HCT and nursing care to provide nurse with a comprehensive and informative guide covering all aspect of transplant nursing, from basic principle to advanced concepts. It take the learner on a journey through the history of transplant nursing, presenting concept to help nurse improve their patient experience. It also explores research and auditing methods. The ultimate goal of this e-learning is to support the EBMT Nurses Group's objective of improving the care of patient receiving HCT. EBMT Online Learning Course for Nurses is available on the e-learning platform and open to all public. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb JACIE Accredited Centres This page feature two lists. The first list show all of the centre with valid accreditation (valid meaning not yet expired). The second list show those centre that have formally requested accreditation and who are at some stage of the process. This includes having applied, awaiting inspection, inspected awaiting report, or in the correction phase. This list make no assessment of the centres' compliance with the Standards.Both list are updated on a monthly basis. JACIE Report of accredited Centers: Please note that a part of the response to the COVID19 pandemic, an extension wa awarded a a once-off or unique measure to all those centre whose accreditation wa still valid after 31 March 2020. This extension is already incorporated into the Accreditation time period shown in the Report. Accrediation award issued after 1 April 2020 reverted to the standard 4-year period. JACIE Report of Centres in process: Thosecentres are listed a "In Process" in a separate list from the Accredited centres. This is referred to a "coverage", a term limited to acknowledging that a given centre is in the accreditation process without having achieved accreditation. A letter stating their current status can berequested from the JACIE office by the centre by writing to Please note that this is how the different Stages reflected in the list of Centres In Processrelate to the different phase of the Accreditation process: Stage Phase 01 Initial registration (new, unapproved) Pre-inspection phase. JACIE/Centre are reviewing the Application for Accreditation 02 Document Checklist (new, approved) Pre-inspection phase. Centre is preparing the submission ofPre-audit documentation 03 Inspection Inspection phase. Centre is awaiting or going through the Inspection 04 Post-inspection (awaiting inspection report) Post-inspection phase. Inspectors are working on the Inspection Report 05 Preparing Summary Report Post-inspection phase. JACIE Office is working on the Inspection Report 06 With Accreditation Committee Post-inspection phase. The Report is ready to be discussed/being discussed by the Accreditation Commtitee 07 In process (not accredited) Post-inspection phase. The Centre is working on the Evidence of Corrections 08 Assessment of correction Post-inspection phase. Centre ha submitted Evidence of correction and these are being reviewed See also the under the FAQs section. In the event that a centre doe not appear on either list, please contact the JACIE Office at for more information or telephone +34 93 453 8570. Follow u on Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Area - Any -EBMT OrganizationResearchRegistry/Data ManagementNurses GroupEventsTraining/EducationAccreditationPatients & DonorsTransplant Activity Survey Group - Any -Acute Leukemia Working Party (ALWP)Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party (SAAWP)Autoimmune Diseases Working Party (ADWP)Chronic Malignancies Working Party (CMWP)Cellular Therapy & Immunobiology Working Party (CTIWP)Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP)Infectious Diseases Working Party (IDWP)Transplant Complications Working Party (TCWP)Lymphoma Working Party (LWP)Paediatric Diseases Working Party (PDWP)Haemoglobinopathies Working Party (HWP)Registry CommitteeStatistical CommitteeJACIE CommitteeInspector CommitteeAccreditation CommitteeDonor Outcomes CommitteeQuality Managers CommitteeLegal & Regulatory Affairs CommitteeGlobal CommitteeNuclear Accident CommitteePharmacist CommitteePatient Advocacy CommitteeTrainee CommitteePractice Harmonisation CommitteeNursing Research CommitteeNursing Scientific CommitteeNursing Paediatric CommitteeNursing Global Education CommitteeEquality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) CommitteeGoCART CoalitionWP/Committee not specifiedOther societyActivity survey officeCOVID-19 Document type Corporate (Annual reports, minutes, ToRs, etc.)Forms, Checklists & TemplatesGuidelines, Consensus Statements & Position PapersNewsletterPress ClippingPress ReleaseProtocol/Study informationTraining/Education MaterialsTraining/Education Presentations & AbstractsUser guides/Instructions Event type - Any -EBMT Annual MeetingBusiness MeetingEducational MeetingTraining Course Creation date Language - Any -EnglishArabicCroatianCzechDanishDutchEstonianFinnishFlemishFrenchGermanGreekHebrewItalianJapaneseLithuanianMandarinNorwegianPolishPortugueseSlovenianSpanishSwedishTurkish Text Pagination Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb EBMT Organisation Board of Association Anna Sureda EBMT President Congress Co-President Barcelona, Spain John Snowden Member JACIE Committee United Kingdom Mette Hazenberg EBMT Treasurer Netherlands Fabio Ciceri Scientific Council chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio ALWP Chair Congress Co-President Milan, Italy Donal McLornan Scientific Council co-chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio CMWP Chair United Kingdom Rafael de la Camara Registry Committee Co-Chair Madrid, Spain Raffaella Greco EBMT Secretary Italy Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom Scientific Council - Working Parties Antonio Risitano SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Registry portfolio SAAWP Chair Italy Raffaella Greco EBMT Secretary Italy Fabio Ciceri Scientific Council chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio ALWP Chair Congress Co-President Milan, Italy Annalisa Ruggeri SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL representative with the Education portfolio CTIWP Chair PRACTICE HARMONISATION COMMITTEE VICE-CHAIR Italy Rafael de la Camara Registry Committee Co-Chair Madrid, Spain Bndicte Neven IEWP Chair France Krzysztof Kalwak PDWP Chair Poland Donal McLornan Scientific Council co-chair with the Research and Sciences portfolio CMWP Chair United Kingdom Zinaida Peri TCWP Chair Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia Subcommittee Croatia Emanuele Angelucci HWP CHAIR Italy Michelle Kenyon President Nurses Group United Kingdom Committees Nina Worel Donor Outcomes Committee Chair EBMT Representative to the JACIE Committee FACT-JACIE Standards Steering Committee member Austria Per Ljungman Registry Committee Chair Honorary Member Stockholm, Sweden Norbert Claude Gorin Global Committee Chair, Chief Representative EBMT Shanghai Office AUTO-SCT and graft composition subcommittee Honorary member Paris, France Ray Powles Nuclear Accident Committee Chair Honorary Member United Kingdom Nick Duncan Pharmacist Committee Chair United Kingdom Focus: pharmaceutical care, antifungal stewardship, education and training, medicine adherence Natacha Bolaos PATIENT ADVOCACY COMMITTEE CHAIR Spain @BolanosNat Claire Horgan CO-CHAIRPERSON TRAINEE COMMITTEE PAEDIATRIC HAEMATOLOGY TRAINEE United Kingdom @TheEBMT_Trainee @Claire_P_Horgan Nico Gagelmann CO-CHAIRPERSON TRAINEE COMMITTEE INTERNAL MEDICINE TRAINEE Germany @TheEBMT_Trainee @NicoGagelmann Jrgen Kuball LRAC Chair Liaison with European Medicines Agency, European Commission & Industry Netherlands Ibrahim Yakoub-Agha Practice Harmonisation Committee Chair France @i_yakoub_agha Silvia Montoto Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) Committee Chair United Kingdom Lynn Manson JACIE Committee Chair Chairperson Accreditation Committee Inspector Commitee Member United Kingdom Collection Inspector Renza Monteleone QM Member of the JACIE Accreditation Committee INSPECTOR COMMITEE MEMBER Italy Annika Kisch CHAIRPERSON NG RESEARCH COMMITTEE Sweden Marijke Quaghebeur CHAIRPERSON NG SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE Belgium Ida Bremer Ophorst PDWP NURSE CHAIRPERSON NG PAEDIATRIC COMMITTEE Netherlands Julia Ruz Pato CHAIRPERSON NG GLOBAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE Quality Manager & JACIE Inspector Spain EBMT Staff Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb ANBI Data Full name of the Institution The European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Tax identification number RSIN Foundation: 814370822 RSIN Association: 804217257 Contact detail in The Netherlands Rijnsburgerweg 10, 2333 AA. Leiden, The Netherlands email: phone number: +31 71 526 1444 Executive Committee President: Anna Sureda Secretary: Raffaella Greco Treasurer: Mette Hazenberg The policy and remuneration policy The Board is the administrative body of the EBMT. It is responsible for all running operation and decision that are not due to be taken by the General Assembly (see below). The Board consists of the President, the President-Elect, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the President of the division EBMT Nurses Group and four member elected by and from the Scientific Council. The President of the forthcoming EBMT Annual Meeting is elected onto the Board for the year preceding the annual meeting a a non-voting member. Decisions are taken by majority voting. The President ha the deciding vote if the vote is otherwise tied. The Members of the Board will receive no remuneration for their work, unless the Genera Assembly Meeting decides otherwise at the time of appointment. Any expense incurred will be reimbursed in consultation with the Board. Please refer to the EBMT Foundation Constitution and EBMT Association Constitution and EBMT bylaw to more detail on the EBMT Policy. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Patient Privacy Statement Patient Personal Data Protection Statement The European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) maintains an international medicaldatabase known a the EBMT Registry. The Registry go back to the beginning of the 1970s and contains clinical data including aspect of the diagnosis, first line treatments, haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) or cell therapy associated procedures, complication and outcome. This document detail what personal data EBMT collects, how it is collected and stored and the purpose for which it is used. There is also information on how to contact the registry and the right of individual data subjects. It wa generated in response to new legislation, the General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679, hereafter GDPR). A registry is considered a separate type of data collection by privacy authorities. The importance for coupling information from registry in order to obtain new knowledge of great value is explicitly recognized (consideration 157 GDPR). The GDPR applies to usage of personal data for research and call for interpreting the research purpose in a broad manner including for instance applied research (consideration 159 GDPR). Why is Patient Data collected? The EBMT Registry collect data for research and development of new and improved transplant, cell therapy and immunosuppression procedures, and to improve the quality of these procedure through the accreditation of treatment units. You can find the information of all EBMT study in which your personal data might be used, by visiting our website on the following page: How is personal data obtained? The EBMT work in partnership with local healthcare provider to collect data on patient undergoing bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, cell therapies, and immunosuppressive treatment for any disease. Following the GDPR, and to ensure the maximum accordance with the law of all EU/EEA nations, personal data of patient residing in EU member country shall only be used for research through EBMT when appropriate informed consent is ensured. This ha been common practice for many year already. The informed consent is collected by the individual centre or donor registry submitting data to the EBMT to make certain that the respective national law are followed. EBMT make patient consent a prerequisite for submitting the data and provides all necessary information about usage of the data, to ensure appropriate consent is obtained in all cases. What personal data is sent to the EBMT Registry? Data collected to identify a person is limited to the hospital UPN (Unique Patient Number), patient initials, date of birth, and gender. These item are the minimal personal data necessary to ensure that medical data collected at different time is accurately stored in the same record. They are not used for identification of the individual and stored separately a enhanced security. This process of separate storage is known a pseudonymisation[i] and is defined in the GDPR regulations. Each patient report is given a unique and non-informative database number (Unique Identity Code) which is the one used for research purposes. A minimum amount of patient personal data is necessary for this type of registries, contributing to the accuracy of the data, and therefore contributing to improvement in care and outcome. How is personal data processed? The EBMT ensures that all personal data under it responsibility is processed according to the GDPR: Processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject; Collected for scientific research legitimate purposes; Processed adequately, relevantly and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purpose for which they are collected and/or further processed; Accurate and up to date; Kept for an unlimited period in a form which permit identification of data subject for no other purpose than historical, statistical or scientific research purposes; Processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data through technical and organisational measures. Where is the Personal Data Stored? The data is stored in an electronic database located in a European country. Only European country that follow the GDPR, regardless of whether they are member of the European Union or not, can host the data. The database is protected by safeguard that ensure security, including compliance with NEN7510/ISO27001 certification. The data will only be accessible by the EBMT employee for the performance of their job following a stringent access control policy Personal Data Transfers The EBMT work with many researcher on international collaboration across scientific or clinical institution and so, under previously gathered consent, the patient pseudonymised personal data may be sent tocountries outside the EEA that areprovided with the same level of protection for privacy. Medical data sent outside this area in the context of EBMT research project will be identified by the non-informative database number, and item such a date of birth, initial or the hospital UPN will not be exported. EBMT will not sell, distribute or lease personal data to third party unless the data subject ha provided EBMT with his or her consent or it is allowed by law. What the Rights of the Data Subjects? The Data Subject ha the right to the following information about it personal data being processed: Confirmation a to whether data related to him or her are being processed; Information about the purpose of the processing operations, the category of data concerned, and the recipient or category of recipient to whom the data are disclosed; Communication of the data undergoing processing. The Data Subject shall have the right listed below: Access to information on his or her processed personal data; Rectification of any inaccurate or incomplete personal data; Withdraw consent and the personal data will no longer be made available for future research; Request that his or her personal data be completely erased from the EBMT Registry database and from database to which the data ha been exported; Any other right granted to the Data Subject with regard to his personal data, under his or her respective local legislation. If a a Data Subject you wish to exercise any of the right listed above. Please send an email to or use the postal address below. The Data Protection Officer Edifici Dr. Frederic Duran i Jord Passeig Taulat, 116 08005 Barcelona (Spain) The Data Subject also ha the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority. Comments or question If you have any comment or question about this patient personal data protection statement, please send them to [i] Pseudonymisation -the processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organisational measure to ensure that the personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person.Article 4 sub (5) GDPR. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Privacy Policy The EBMT (European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation) is committed to user privacy. The EBMT website - ha been structured so that user can visit it without identifying themselves or revealing any personal information. Any personal data that a user may decide to provide u will be used to support the relationship between the EBMT and this user. What is personal data? Personal data is any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person ('data subject'); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such a a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factor specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person. How is personal data obtained? EBMT collect personal data only if you voluntarily submit it by completing the on-line forms. When you choose to submit personally identifiable information to EBMT, the latter will use your information only for the purpose for which you have consented. The purpose for processing the personal data is detailed in the on-line form or application form. How is personal data processed? The EBMT ensures that all personal data under it responsibility is processed according to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR 2016/679) Processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject; Collected for legitimate purposes; Processed adequately, relevantly and not excessively in relation to the purpose for which they are collected and/or further processed; Accurate and up to date; Kept in a form which permit identification of data subject for no longer than is necessary for the purpose for which the personal data are processed. Processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data through technical and organisation measures. Personal Data Transfers EBMT will not sell, distribute or lease your personal information to third party unless we have your permission or are required by law to do so. The EBMT work with many Collaboration Partners internationally including national registries, national health authorities, researcher from scientific/clinical institution and the marketing authorisation holder (MAHs; Pharmaceutical company owning the therapy that your patient may receive for their treatment) for clinical research purpose and the development of new and improved transplant, cell therapy and immunosuppression procedures, and to improve the quality of these procedures. For the purpose described above and in order to comply with the legal obligation and requirement for the development of clinical research studies, your data might be shared with MAH and national health authority in the context of a study that your institution is being part of. Where is the Personal Data Stored? Personal datais stored in an electronic databaseproperty of EBMT which will be allocatedin the EEA (European Economic Area) or in country that are provided with the same level of protection for privacy. What are my right a the Data Subject? The Data Subject ha the right to the following information about personal data being processed: Confirmation a to whether data related to him or her are being processed; Information about the purpose of the processing operations, the category of data concerned, and the recipient or category of recipient to whom the data are disclosed; Communication of the data undergoing processing. Knowledge of the logic involved in any decision process concerning the use of the data subject personal data. The Data Subject shall have the right listed below: Access to information on his or her processed personal data. Rectification of any inaccurate or incomplete personal data. Withdraw consent and the personal data will no longer be processed. Request that his or her personal data be completely erased from the EBMT database and from database to which the data ha been exported. If a a Data Subject you wish to exercise any of the right listed above. Please send an email toor use the postal address below. The Data Protection Officer Edifici Dr. Frederic Duran i Jord Passeig Taulat, 116 08005 Barcelona (Spain) The Data Subject also ha the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority. Comments or question If you have any comment or question about this privacy policy, please send them to The Data Protection Officer Edifici Dr. Frederic Duran i Jord Passeig Taulat, 116 08005 Barcelona (Spain) We collect Web Statistics As you browse through this Web site, the EBMT collect some non-personally identifiable data, such as: The type of browser used to access the site The date and time of your visit The page you visited The address of the Web site that referred you if you clicked a link to get to this site The EBMT collect this information for statistical purpose and for evaluating this Web site to make it more useful to visitors. A cookie is a small file which asks permission to be placed on your computer hard drive. Once you agree, the file is added and the cookie help analyse web traffic or let you know when you visit a particular site. Cookies allow web application to respond to you a an individual. The web application can tailor it operation to your needs, like and dislike by gathering and remembering information about your preferences. You can choose to accept or decline cookies. Most web browser automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cooky if you prefer. This may prevent you from taking full advantage of the website. We provide link to other website Our website may contain link to other website of interest. However, once you have used these link to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website. Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such site and such site are not governed by this privacy statement. You should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Cookie Policy EBMT would like to inform you about the collection and processing of cookies. What are cookies? A cookie is a small file which asks permission to be placed on your computer hard drive. Once you agree, the file is added and the cookie help analyse web traffic or let you know when you visit a particular site. Cookies allow web application to respond to you a an individual. The web application can tailor it operation to your needs, like and dislike by gathering and remembering information about your preferences. What type of cooky doe this website use? Analytical cooky - These are those that are well treated by u or by third parties, allow u to quantify the number of user and thus carry out statistical measurement and analysis of the use made by user of the service offered. For this, your browsing on our website is analyzed in order to improve the offer of product or service that we offer you. Third-party cookies: they allow the number of user to be quantified and thus carry out statistical measurement and analysis of the use made by user of the service offered. For this, your browsing on our website is analyzed in order to improve the offer of product or service that we offer you. This website us third-party service to collect information for statistical purpose and for the use of the website: Google Analytics: (Analytical Cookies). How to disable cooky You can allow, block or delete the cooky installed on your computer by configuring the browser option installed on your computer. Below you can access the configuration of the most frequent web browser to accept, install or deactivate cookies: Firefox Safari Google Chrome We provide link to other website Our website may contain link to other website of interest. However, once you have used these link to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website. Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such site and such site are not governed by this privacy statement. You should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Terms of Use If you continue to browse and use this website, you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by the following term and condition of use, which together with our privacy policy govern EBMTs relationship with you in relation to this website. If you disagree with any part of these term and conditions, please do not use our website. The term EBMT (European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation) or u or we refers to the owner of the website whose registered office is P.O. Box 3151, 6202 ND Maastricht, The Netherlands. Our company registration number is 41166105. The term you refers to the user or viewer of our website. The use of this website is subject to the following term of use: Scope of this website The content of the page of this website is for your general information and use only. It is subject to change without notice. Accuracy of material EBMT make best effort to keep material on this web site up to date and accurate. If general errors, such a editorial error are detected EBMT make best effort to correct them a appropriate. Documents published are a indicated, and sometimes they might not be in the final or formally accepted version. No specific advice Nothing in this web site is to be considered to constitute advice on specific cases, including medical advice, unless it is stated otherwise. Use of material Neither EBMT nor any person acting on it behalf is responsible for the use that might be made of the information contained in this web site. EBMT assumes no responsibility with regard to the use of material available on this web site. Users act at their own risk when using material on this web site and they are hereby urged to take necessary precaution when evaluating the usefulness and applicability of this material for their intended purposes. Technical error In spite of EBMTs best efforts, sometimes technical error might occur. EBMT doe not warrant the error-free operation of material a appropriate that it publishes on this web site. EBMT accepts no responsibility or liability whatsoever with regard to material accessed, operated on or downloaded through this web site. Copyright Material includes data, text, software and multimedia, such a image and sound that might be made available or publicized through the EBMT web site. Reproduction of material published on this web site is authorized, provided the source is acknowledged, unless it is stated otherwise. Where prior permission must be obtained for the reproduction or use of material published on this web site the above mentioned permission shall be cancelled and restriction shall be imposed through a legal notice a appropriate published on that specific material. Enquiries regarding authorization for reproduction can be sent to . The reproduction of the EBMT logo is permitted provided that the source is acknowledged and the logo is used for press and medium related purposes. All other us are prohibited unless permission is requested. Links to other website This website includes link to other websites. These link are provided for your convenience to provide further information. They do not signify that we endorse the website(s). We have no responsibility for the content of the linked website(s). Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu Shortcuts Search Main navigation Menu Breadcrumb Contact u Your browser doe not support iframes, but you can visit Secondary 2024 The EBMT. All right reserved. Footer menu