EDITH is a Coordination and Support Action (CSA), funded by the European Commission, which will capitalise on the development of digital technologies, high performance computing, availability and access to research and healthcare data in Europe, with the mission of defining a roadmap to go from separated single organ systems, to data-driven and knowledge-driven fully integrated multiscale and multiorgan whole-body twin. EDITH will facilitate this process by building an evolutionary ecosystem, driven by a consensus among the relevant European communities, and implemented through the aid of practical tools, such a a data/model repository (within the scope of EDITH), and a simulation platform (to be implemented after EDITH). The goal of EDITH are to tangibly foster a sustainable ecosystem. Starting from a comprehensive roadmap of the current landscape, EDITH will implement a federated cloud-based repository, gathering human digital twin resource (models, data sets, algorithms, good practices), and design the architecture of a simulation platform to facilitate the transition towards the use of comprehensive Virtual Human Twin (VHT) model in personalised medicine. Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved EDITH European Virtual Human Twin Sign up at the: Vision Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is an integrated multiscale, multi-time, and multi-discipline representation of quantitative human physiology and pathology. Its realisation through a collaborative distributed knowledge and resource platform is specifically designed to accelerate the development, integration, and adoption of patient-specific predictive computer models, which will be used a clinical decision support systems, for personal health forecasting or a methodology for the development and de-risking of personalised medical products. The vision of EDITH is to facilitate the realisation of the opportunity presented by VHTs for the benefit of patients, healthcare providers, regulatory body and industry, both within Europe and globally. Mission EDITH is a Coordination and Support Action (CSA), funded by the European Commission, which will capitalise on the development of digital technologies, high performance computing, availability and access to research and healthcare data in Europe, with the mission of defining a roadmap to go from separated single organ systems, to data-driven and knowledge-driven fully integrated multiscale and multiorgan whole-body twin. EDITH will facilitate this process by building an evolutionary ecosystem, driven by a consensus among the relevant European communities, and implemented through the aid of practical tools, such a a data/model repository (within the scope of EDITH), and a simulation platform (to be implemented after EDITH). Focus A Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is a patient-specific virtual representation of real-world system or processes, that is built on data-driven or knowledge-driven - most often a combination of both - predictive computer models, and that can be used a a clinical decision-support system, a personal health forecasting tool or a a tool for the development and personalisation of medical products. The focus of EDITH is to propose how a fully integrated VHT can be developed, starting from single organ digital twins. Objectives ECOSYSTEM EDITH ha the objective to frame an inclusive ecosystem of digital twin in healthcare within the EU Member States and associated countries. It will start with a comprehensive mapping of the existing relevant actors, initiatives, resource (i.e., models, data sets, methods, good practices, infrastructures, solutions, services), and barrier in the digital twins. This will ensure adequate clinical representation, while fostering collaboration and integration of all relevant stakeholders, such a solution developers, technology providers, infrastructure providers, end-users (healthcare professional and patients), regulatory agencies, and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) bodies. ROADMAP EDITH ha the objective to build a roadmap with all the necessary condition to evolve towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). The roadmap will identify the necessary building block to ensure the VHTs clinical application and formulate clear short- and mid-term policy recommendations. It will also address aspect of interoperability, computability, health information integration from various sources. It will identify any possible implementation need and barriers, including the development of a strategic approach for clinical deployment of the VHT model. This will foster the uptake of personalised clinical decision-making, with a particular focus on area of unmet medical needs. REPOSITORY EDITH ha the objective to develop a federated and cloud-based repository of digital twin (data, models, algorithms, and good practices) in healthcare. The repository will provide a virtual collaboration environment for multiple user and organisations, that will pool together existing digital twin resource across Europe. The ecosystem will be leveraged to create a repository catalogue with available resource and recruit resource into the repository from the consortium and external contributors. Through a federated approach, link will be established with ongoing initiative that have complementary objectives. SIMULATION PLATFORM EDITH ha the objective to develop the architecture of a simulation platform that will support the transition towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). EDITHs platform, based on a personal user account with specific permissions, will outline how to provide user with a one-stop shop to design, develop, test, and validate single organ digital twins, and combine them with other twin to build integrated VHT models. Five use-cases (cancer, cardiovascular, intensive care, osteoporosis, brain) have been pre-selected to be developed a prototypes, representing the variety of functionality to be provided by the platform. News 17 April 2024 17 April 2024 14 March 2024 12 March 2024 20 February 2024 07 February 2024 05 February 2024 22 December 2023 05 December 2023 05 December 2023 European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Edith Vision Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is an integrated multiscale, multi-time, and multi-discipline representation of quantitative human physiology and pathology. Its realisation through a collaborative distributed knowledge and resource platform is specifically designed to accelerate the development, integration, and adoption of patient-specific predictive computer models, which will be used a clinical decision support systems, for personal health forecasting or a methodology for the development and de-risking of personalised medical products. The vision of EDITH is to facilitate the realisation of the opportunity presented by VHTs for the benefit of patients, healthcare providers, regulatory body and industry, both within Europe and globally. Mission EDITH is a Coordination and Support Action (CSA), funded by the European Commission, which will capitalise on the development of digital technologies, high performance computing, availability and access to research and healthcare data in Europe, with the mission of defining a roadmap to go from separated single organ systems, to data-driven and knowledge-driven fully integrated multiscale and multiorgan whole-body twin. EDITH will facilitate this process by building an evolutionary ecosystem, driven by a consensus among the relevant European communities, and implemented through the aid of practical tools, such a a data/model repository (within the scope of EDITH), and a simulation platform (to be implemented after EDITH). Focus A Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is a patient-specific virtual representation of real-world system or processes, that is built on data-driven or knowledge-driven - most often a combination of both - predictive computer models, and that can be used a a clinical decision-support system, a personal health forecasting tool or a a tool for the development and personalisation of medical products. The focus of EDITH is to propose how a fully integrated VHT can be developed, starting from single organ digital twins. Objectives The goal of EDITH are to tangibly foster a sustainable ecosystem. Starting from a comprehensive roadmap of the current landscape, EDITH will implement a federated cloud-based repository, gathering human digital twin resource (models, data sets, algorithms, good practices), and design the architecture of a simulation platform to facilitate the transition towards the use of comprehensive Virtual Human Twin (VHT) model in personalised medicine. ECOSYSTEM EDITH ha the objective to frame an inclusive ecosystem of digital twin in healthcare within the EU Member States and associated countries. It will start with a comprehensive mapping of the existing relevant actors, initiatives, resource (i.e., models, data sets, methods, good practices, infrastructures, solutions, services), and barrier in the digital twins. This will ensure adequate clinical representation, while fostering collaboration and integration of all relevant stakeholders, such a solution developers, technology providers, infrastructure providers, end-users (healthcare professional and patients), regulatory agencies, and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) bodies. ROADMAP EDITH ha the objective to build a roadmap with all the necessary condition to evolve towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). The roadmap will identify the necessary building block to ensure the VHTs clinical application and formulate clear short- and mid-term policy recommendations. It will also address aspect of interoperability, computability, health information integration from various sources. It will identify any possible implementation need and barriers, including the development of a strategic approach for clinical deployment of the VHT model. This will foster the uptake of personalised clinical decision-making, with a particular focus on area of unmet medical needs. REPOSITORY EDITH ha the objective to develop a federated and cloud-based repository of digital twin (data, models, algorithms, and good practices) in healthcare. The repository will provide a virtual collaboration environment for multiple user and organisations, that will pool together existing digital twin resource across Europe. The ecosystem will be leveraged to create a repository catalogue with available resource and recruit resource into the repository from the consortium and external contributors. Through a federated approach, link will be established with ongoing initiative that have complementary objectives. SIMULATION PLATFORM EDITH ha the objective to develop the architecture of a simulation platform that will support the transition towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). EDITHs platform, based on a personal user account with specific permissions, will outline how to provide user with a one-stop shop to design, develop, test, and validate single organ digital twins, and combine them with other twin to build integrated VHT models. Five use-cases (cancer, cardiovascular, intensive care, osteoporosis, brain) have been pre-selected to be developed a prototypes, representing the variety of functionality to be provided by the platform. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Implementation Timeline & Achievements Use Cases Five use-cases (related to specific application in cancer, cardiovascular, intensive care, osteoporosis, and brain) have been preselected for early prototyping of the simulation platform, thus allowing EDITH to start working on tangible example of existing virtual twins. Most of the selected use-cases are currently being tested in a clinical setting in one or more institution in Europe. EDITH partner responsible for the use-cases represent both technical developer and clinical users. These use-cases cover all the relevant element of the platform: model type (multi-scale, multi-physics mechanistic models, data-driven models), dataset type (omics, images) and sizes, computational demand (High Performance Computing, cloud), access demand (multiple different users, real-time), possibility for integration (linking resource across different scale and different application domains), and link to existing repositories. In addition, the , implement the InvestigationsStudiesAssays (ISA) structure and it is a well-suited service to bridge between EDITHs repository and the simulation platform. Cancer Cancer care ha been identified a one of the major disease area that will benefit from the European Digital Strategy (EDS). The use case is provided by EDITHs partner , from their prior work in the project. Their in silico model is based on single-cell sequencing data from patient and quantifies the patient-specific molecular and cellular feature that represent real tumour to propose personalised drug treatments. This model will be complemented by the EDITH consortium through microscopy imaging and spatial omics technique to ass the ability to obtain in silico solution that recapitulate the main anatomical feature of the observed tumours. EDITH will integrate the entire workflow to deliver personalised health forecasts. Cardiovascular Cardiovascular disease are the leading cause of death in the EU. They are also an area where multiple digital resource are already available. Atrial fibrillation is the most common form of cardiac arrhythmia, affecting over 37 million people worldwide. Virtual cohort that capture variability in atrial anatomy, fibrotic remodelling, and electrical property are already under investigation and may be used to simulate the effect of different treatment approaches. Atrial fibrillation ha a higher incidence in cancer patients. The underlying mechanism of this association are currently unclear and virtual twin could form an ideal framework for their investigation. Integration of the respective resource and cardiac modelling workflow will be tested by EDITH ( and ) a a proof-of-concept towards creation of Virtual Human Twins (VHTs). EDITH will provide a pathway to in silico personalised treatment planning. Intensive care Intensive care is suffering from increasing demographic and economic pressure worldwide. Patient heterogeneity and metabolic variability are high in critically ill patients, showing the need for personalised solution to provide safe and effective care for all. Virtual twin based on identifiable and relevant patient-specific, time-varying physiological parameter can be used to design decision support system to guide healthcare professionals. EDITHs partner is currently co-developing a personalised, risk-based treatment approach providing safe and effective glycaemic control, which is associated with improved survival and recovery in critically ill patients. The computational demand of this model are small, but a challenging real-time interaction between sensors, models, and healthcare professional is required. Osteoporosis Osteoporosis is one of the major cause of mortality among the elderly. With the EU's ageing population, adequate prediction of osteoporosis-related fracture risk is important. The Bologna Biomechanical Computed Tomography (BBCT) is a virtual twin methodology developed by EDITHs partner . It is a mechanistic model that us a subject-specific finite element model to predict femoral bone strength. Quantitative Computed Tomography (QCT) scan of the hip region and patient data will inform a patient-specific computer model, which will, in turn, predict the risk of hip fracture. This will be a single-organ model, generated from data at the time of CT acquisition, and eventually lead to a personalised health forecast. Brain The human brain can be conceptualised a a complex system organised at different spatial scales. The estimated number of neuron is 86 billion, whereby each neuron can have approximately 10.000 synapses. EDITHs partner ha developed BigBrain, a 3D anatomical model. BigBrain is being used to provide high resolution anatomical data for brain model of patient with epilepsy. These data include both physiological and region connectivities, collectively represented a a virtual brain. A combination of the BigBrain model with heart resource (see cardiovascular use-case) based on very large data set (TB to PB range) available in the repository will be investigated by EDITH to create a data-driven model. Brain, and the brain stem in particular, influence heart function and this is an exemplary trial case of organ integration towards Virtual Human Twins (VHTs). Thus, it will allow a personalised treatment planning. OTHER POSSIBLE USE-CASES Proposals for other use-cases (or integration of/into the pre-selected ones) are welcome. Potential proposer are requested to click . European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Ethical and Legal REGULATORY COMPLIANCE EDITH will ground it technological path on EU applicable legislation, including, in particular, Privacy and Data Protection, Artificial Intelligence, a well a In silico Clinical Trial and Medical Device related laws. Special attention will be paid to some key upcoming, or recently adopted, development such a the Data Governance Act, the Data Act, and the European Health Data Space, to ensure that EDITHs roadmap to Virtual Human Twin (VHT) outline new requirement and an advanced regulatory guidance for reinforcing healthcare and medical research stakeholder accountability. Leveraging on EDITH partner multi-sectoral expertise, all major hurdle deriving from the current legal framework, which may prevent, or slow down the progress and uptake of a compliant, secure, ethically compatible and privacy-preserving VHT ecosystem, will be examined to propose improvement and compliance streamlining. Therefore, issue like cross-border health data sharing, reuse of medical data, pseudonymization and benefit of specific privacy-enhancing technology (such a federated learning, synthetic data, and secure multi-party computation) to foster security and boost citizen trust will all be included in the roadmap. CODE OF CONDUCT The concept of Code of Conduct implies a triple step by any concerned industry: first creating awareness, then self-examination and, last, setting of sector-tailored and self-imposed high compliance standards. In the case of EDITH, the definition of conduct rule represents a statement of intent. Drawing inspiration from this novel accountability tool put forward in the General Data Protection Regulation (Articles 40 and 41), aiming to pave the way to an easier and more homogeneous application of the applicable legal obligations, EDITH will outline a prospective guidance suggesting innovative regulatory trail and industry-specific technological and legal measure to overcome current hurdle for sharing and reusing health data. Best practice outlined within EDITH will be transposed into possible legal, although elective, commitment to enhance compliance by stakeholder and strengthen general trust in Virtual Human Twin (VHT) by AI developers, technology providers, end-users (particularly healthcare professional and patients), regulatory agencies, and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) bodies. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved State of the art EDITH-CSA Knowledge Base EDITH-CSA developed an interactive knowledge base leveraging OpenAI GPT models. The system allows to ask question about the Virtual Human Twin in natural language, and receive pertinent answer on the basis of the relevant literature. The tool is available for testing at the following Current standard and guideline To know more about the FAIR sharing standard collection for EDITH click . To construct Virtual Human Twins from health data complex multi-scale and multi-organ modelling process must be brought together. This call for data that are highly interoperable to integrate them into the modelling processes, but also for interoperable model and standardized output, a well a quality assurance of the models. To this end, standard for data formatting and data input into the model () and for data publication () are defined, a well a for data preparation and the modelling process itself (). To standardize the description of the data and models, they should be semantically annotated by using domain-specific ontology term according to minimum reporting guidelines. Provenance information for each data handling and processing step should be captured in a standardized way (). To ass the quality of the model and their output, the model credibility and modelling result should be validated ( and ). Where applicable, model exchange should do, based on model standard like SBML or CellML, which are defined by (Computational Modelling in Biology Network) and other scientific standardization initiatives. To make the data and model interoperable it is suggested to use the Biomedical Research IntegratedGroup(BRIDG) domain model () and the (Health Level Seven Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) framework. For phenotypic data exchange the phenopackets standard (), defined by (Global Alliance for Genomics and Health), can be used to link detailed phenotypic description with information about disease, patient, diagnosis, treatments, and genetic information. Current scientific paper This section is dedicated to the EDITH Consortium members. For more information or support, please . To access, please click . European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Materials Roadmap writing Roadmap Community of Practice VHT MANIFESTO The VHT Manifesto: A Statement of Intent on Development, Evidence, and Adoption in Healthcare Systems Deliverables If you want to provide input on EDITH deliverables, please click Deliverable 3.1: Vision for the Virtual Human Twin and Roadmap Outline Deliverable 3.2: First Draft of the VHT Roadmap Brochures Brochure Brochure illustrating EDITH vision, mission and objective Papers R. Lesage, M. Van Oudheusden, S. Schievano, I. Van Hoyweghen, L. Geris, C. Capelli, Mapping the use of computational modelling and simulation in clinics: A survey, (2023 Apr), Front Med Technol. M. Viceconti, M. De Vos, S. Mellone, L. Geris, Position paperFrom the digital twin in healthcare to the Virtual Human Twin: a moon-shot project for digital health research, (2023 Oct), IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. Videos EDITH CSA, building the European Virtual Human Twin What is the Virtual Human Twin? Lets discover EDITHs Repository and Platform DOCUMENTS FOR PUBLIC INPUT If you want to provide input on the preliminary version of the first draft of the VTH Roadmap, please click Public consultation version of the first draft of the VHT Roadmap European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved 17 April 2024 17 April 2024 14 March 2024 12 March 2024 20 February 2024 07 February 2024 05 February 2024 22 December 2023 05 December 2023 05 December 2023 13 November 2023 17 October 2023 17 October 2023 17 October 2023 27 SEPTEMBER 2023 10 August 2023 05 July 2023 22 June 2023 EDITH Consortium and industrial, clinical and other stakeholder at the crossroad of cutting-edge technology for personalised medicine 17 May 2023 27 APRIL 2023 24 April 2023 06 April 2023 22 March 2023 31 January 2023 19-21 JUNE 2023 17-20 April 2023 30 November 2022 11 October 2022 European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Newsletters EDITH update April 2024 The technical meeting in Athens just ended, the final meeting in Amsterdam is approaching EDITH update March 2024 What is the VHT? New video, new Roadmap version and Amsterdam meeting EDITH update February 2024 Ecosystem meetings, new use cases, the book Towards Good Simulation Practice EDITH update January 2024 New Year, New Horizons: Meeting in Paris and VHT Manifesto EDITH update December 2023 End-of-year Reflections and New Year Goals EDITH update November 2023 Standards, Video, Save the Date, and more EDITH update October 2023 Sharing our Progress and Insights European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Partners VPHi - Project Coordinator Belgium Full profile VPHi, the Virtual Physiological Human Institute for Integrative Biomedical Research, is an international non-profit organisation with the mission to ensure that medicine is fully realised, universally adopted and effectively used both in research and clinic. This will be done by integrating quantitative biological knowledge from molecular to cell, tissue, organ and whole-body scale and translating it into clinical practice. The VPHi act a a catalyst to bring together a variety of stakeholder such a policy makers, science funding bodies, regulatory agencies, clinical organisations, and industry to maximise the benefit of medicine approach for the healthcare industry and for the public good. As Coordinating Institution, VPHi ha overall responsibility for the progress of EDITH, steering the scientific and technical work performed to ensure that achieved result reflect the intended quality and objective LYNKEUS - Project Manager Italy Full profile LYNKEUS S.r.l. is an independent strategy and business consultancy company specialised on eHealth solutions. Lynkeus work to identify and promote the best cutting-edge technological solution to complex socio-economic problem in a variety of area related to technological application in public policies, with a specific focus on healthcare. LYNKEUSprovides a holistic approach including the following services: InnovationandBusiness Strategy; Project management; Blockchain development and implementation; Clinical decision support technologies; Analysis and implementation of Privacy Enhancing Technologies; Legal and ethical compliance; Disseminationandcommunication; Exploitationandbusiness planning. In EDITH, LYNKEUS provides Project Management and lead the activity on Ecosystem building, crowdsourcing knowledge discovery and consensus creation, plus contributing to analyse Sustainability issue and define the guideline for a Code of Conduct. ACC CYFRONET AGH Poland Full profile ACC CYFRONET AGH (Akademia Grniczo Hutnicza) is a supercomputing centre which provides large-scale IT resource to institution around the Krakw area, with particular focus on academic and research organizations. In addition to it role a an infrastructure provider, CYFRONET is also involved in collaborative research projects, both domestic and European. The Centre operates some of the fastest HPC cluster in Central Europe, and is affiliated with a number of similar institution throughout Poland in the framework of the PL-Grid initiative. In EDITH, ACC CYFRONET AGH is involved in the design and implementation of the simulation platform, along with it integration with the model repository. The Centre also work on operationalising early prototype of the platform. ATHENA Greece Full profile ATHENA (Athina-Erevnitiko Kentro Kainotomias Stis Technologies Tis Pliroforias, Ton Epikoinonion Kai Tis Gnosis) is a Research Center (RC) of scientific excellence in various field of research. The vision of Athena RC is to serve the full spectrum of the research lifecycle, starting from basic and applied research, continuing on to system and product building and infrastructure service provision, and ending with technology transfer and entrepreneurship. Athena play a major role in the Greek and European data infrastructure area with extensive expertise regarding the design, development and operation of data infrastructure in a broad range of subject areas. Its broad spectrum of research field also includes those from other sciences, industrial applications, or societal challenges, such a informatics, data science, robotics, automation, signal processing, artificial intelligence, networking, and digital communication and modeling. ATHENA is responsible for the technical design of both EDITH Repository and EDITH Platform, while it is leading the Simulation Platform. BSC Spain Full profile BSC (Barcelona Supercomputing Center-Centro Nacional de Supercomputacin) is a research centre hosting one of the largest EU High-Performance Computing (HPC) facilities. It coordinate ELIXIR-ES and the data pillar of the Spanish personalised medicine initiative, IMPACT. BSC develops virtual twin of different mechanistic system in collaboration with industry and academia, a well a climate simulation a part of the EU Destination Earth initiative. In the area of life sciences, BSC is building virtual twin of human organ and cellular system in different EU-funded project and coordinate the HPC centre of excellence in personalised medicine, PerMedCoE. BSC is involved in several activity in EDITH: the development of two use-cases, in charge of part of the HPC infrastructure and in the development of efficient workflow for the EDITH platform. DIGITALEUROPE Belgium Full profile DIGITALEUROPE AISBL, the leading trade association representing digitally transforming industry in Europe, stand for a regulatory environment that enables European business and citizen to prosper from digital technologies. With it members, DIGITALEUROPE shape industrial policy position on all relevant legislative matter and contributes to the development and implementation of relevant EU policies. Its member of over 45,000 businesses, operating and investing in Europe, include 100 corporation which are global leader in their own field, and 41 national trade associations. In EDITH, DIGITALEUROPE will coordinate the advice from industry and contribute to the analysis of the legal and regulatory environment, a well a the development of future business model and the sustainability of the EDITH platform. EMPIRICA Germany Full profile EMPIRICA (Gesellschaft fr Kommunikations- und Technologieforschung mbH) is a leading provider of research and consulting service on digital change and resulting policy formulation for governments, the EU and industry in the area of Healthcare, Digital Health Research and Innovation, Smart Energy & Green Economy, Digital Economy and Society, Healthy Ageing, eSkills & Work, and Entrepreneurship. EMPIRICA will contribute to EDITH with it expertise on policy, social and economic implications, defining the vision and roadmap of the Virtual Human Twin (VHT), and key issue pertaining to exploitation. EPFL Swiss Full profile EPFL(cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne) is one of the Europes most cosmopolitan technical university and welcome students, professors, and collaborator of more than 120 nationalities. EPFL ha both a Swiss and international vocation and focus on three missions: teaching, research, and innovation. It collaborates with an important network of partners, including other university and colleges, secondary school and gymnasiums, industry and the economy, political circles, and the general public, with the aim of having a real impact on society. Nanolab-EPFL research is focusing on novel electronic technology for low power application such a Internet of Things and Edge AI, encompassing sensing, computation and communications. The role of Nanolab in EDITH is to contribute to certain use case for Virtual Twins, exploiting sensing technology and Data driven models, and network with the ongoing EuropeanFuture and Emerging Technologies (FET) Proactive initiative in Digital Twins in order to build a common European roadmap. FORTH Greece Full profile FORTH (Foundation for Research and Technology Hellas) established in 1983, is one of the largest research centre in Greece with well organised facility and highly qualified personnel with high impact research results. The work in EDITH by FORTH/BRI (Biomedical Research Institute) is undertaken by MedLab, the Unit of Medical Technology and Intelligent Information Systems, a highly innovative and self-contained research unit strongly activated in the field of Biomedical Engineering and development of Intelligent Information systems. FORTH is participating in EDITH, among other, in the: (i) Ecosystem building and crowdsourcing knowledge discovery, (ii) Creation of roadmap for accelerating uptake of VHT-based solutions, (iii) Simulation Platform development activities, and (iv) Design and implementation of EDITH sustainability strategy and exploitation opportunities. HITS Germany Full profile HITS, the Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies, wa established in 2010 by physicist and SAP co-founder Klaus Tschira (1940-2015) and the Klaus Tschira Foundation a a private, non-profit research institute. HITS conduct basic research in the natural, mathematical, and computer sciences. Major research direction include complex simulation across scales, making sense of data, and enabling science via computational research. Application area range molecular biology to astrophysics. An essential characteristic of the Institute is interdisciplinarity, implemented in numerous cross-group and cross-disciplinary projects. The base funding of HITS is provided by the Klaus Tschira Foundation. HITS contributes to EDITHs development of a roadmap and vision for standardized Virtual Human Twins (VHTs), based it long-standing involvement in data management and standardization for life science and health data. The Scientific Databases and Visualization (SDBV) group of HITS brings in it involvement and leadership role in domain-specific standardization initiative and ISO committees. HITS also provides the FAIRDOM SEEK platform a a use case for integrating existing data and model platform into the EDITH infrastructure to be built. This will be a showcase for the generic interfacing of the EDITH infrastructure to other components. INRIA France Full profile INRIA (Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et Automatique) is the French national research institute for digital science and technology. World-class research, technological innovation and entrepreneurial risk are it DNA. In 215 projects, shared with major research universities, more than 3,900 researcher and engineer explore new path in an interdisciplinary manner and in collaboration with industrial partner to meet ambitious challenges. As a technological institute, INRIA support the diversity of innovation pathways: from open source software publishing to the creation of technological start-ups (Deeptech). In EDITH, INRIA contributes to roadmapping, standards, and vision, based upon it expertise at digital twin modeling in liver and heart, in patient-specific surgery modeling, and in image-based model personalization, using model at various scale such asagent (cell)-based modeling and hemodynamics models. JLICH Germany Full profile JLICH (Forschungszentrum Jlich GMBH), one of Europes largest research centres, make a vital contribution to solve major challenge of the society in the field of information, energy, and bioeconomy, focussing on: the future of information technology and information processing, complex process in the human brain, the transformation of the energy system, and a sustainable bioeconomy. JLICH develops simulation and data science a a key research method, make use of large, often unique, scientific infrastructures, and exploit synergy between different research areas, spanning a diverse range of topic and disciplines. JLICH contributes it expertise and computational resource to EDITHs simulation platform, a well a a use case involving high-resolution modelling of the human brain. PI SCHOOL Italy Full profile PI SCHOOL is headquartered in Rome, Italy, within Pi Campus, an AI venture fund. It blend state-of-the-art technology with a startup mindset. Pi School train AI specialist and provides Data Science and Deep Learning coaching service to team in the industry, and carry out rapid prototyping action to support AI project portfolios. For example, a of Q4 2022, it flagship Pi School of AI programme ha delivered 88 AI prototype based on the most recent scientific advances. In EDITH, Pi School work on economic aspect of Virtual Human Twins (VHTs) in view of the development of a viable ecosystem growing through technology transfer, from research to patients. Specifically, it lead the collection and analysis of a portfolio of potential business model based on it entrepreneurial experience and the consortium industry network. QMUL Uk Full profile QMUL (Queen Mary University of London) ha a long proud and distinctive history built on four historic institution stretching back to 1785 and beyond: St Bartholomews Hospital Medical College, London Hospital Medical College, Westfield College, and Queen Mary College. Throughout it history, QMUL ha fostered social justice and improved life through academic excellence, bringing result across the globe. The research will be conducted in Queen Marys Digital Environment Research Institute, dedicated to multi-disciplinary research in digital and data science, and Barts Heart Centre, part of Barts Health NHS Trust. In EDITH QMUL will develop an example use-case on cardiovascular modelling, and aid in connecting digital twin technology to users, supported by the CardioVascular Devices Hub. RWTH Germany Full profile RWTH (Rhine-Westphalia Technical University of Aachen), University Hospital Aachen, a a maximum-care teaching hospital, bundle patient care, research and teaching under one roof facilitating intensive interdisciplinary dialogue and a dense clinical and scientific network. As a primary focus, University Hospital Aachen in the Computational Sciences ecosystem at RWTH Aachen drive Digital Medicine from the algorithm development up to implementation in patient care. In EDITH, University Hospital Aachen will bring in it experience in the development of virtual patient a well a hybrid modelling integrating AI and physic based model for intensive care. Moreover, sustainability issue will be in the focus of their contribution a well. ULIGE Belgium Full profile ULIGE (University of Lige), a major of the , with root in the middle ages. For two century ULIGE ha interweaved it rich and abundant history with that of Europe after the Treaty of Vienna and that of Belgium and it scientific, social and cultural, economic, and industrial destiny. ULIGE relies on 200 year of creation and transmission of knowledge, between international openness and regional engagement, with more than 5,000 people, involved in both basic and applied research. ULIGEs main contribution to EDITH is to participate in early prototyping by providing a use-case of a virtual twin forclinical trial and personalised treatment for glycemic control in intensive care. UNIBO Italy Full profile UNIBO (Alma Mater Studiorum Universit di Bologna), keystone and point of reference for European culture, is considered to be the oldest university in the Western world. University of Bologna ha a nine-centuries history, intertwined with that of some great name of science and literature. Dating back in 1088, conventionally referred to a the year of it foundation, it ha passed through the bustling Middle Ages, the eclectic Renaissance, the stagnation of the Modern Age and it revival in the Contemporary Era. In EDITH UNIBO will focus on the development of the federated cloud-based repository and will provide important contribution to the roadmapping and to other task related to the regulatory, ethical and legal aspects. The Bologna Biomechanical Computed Tomography (BBCT) digital twin methodology developed by UNIBO will also serve a a use-case for testing specific functionality of the simulation platform. UvA Netherlands Full profile UvA (Universiteit van Amsterdam) is an ambitious, creative, innovative, committed and independent university, working towards a sustainable and prosperous future; UvA is leader in international science and partner in innovation, inspiring generation since 1632. Interdisciplinary research, cooperation and innovation are key to it scientific innovation. The main role of UvA in EDITH is to contribute to the Virtual Human Twin (VHT) vision, roadmapping, and simulation platform. VITO Belgium Full profile VITO (Vlaamse Instelling Voor Technologisch Onderzoek) HEALTH is an independent Flemish research organisation developing innovative technological solution for the diagnosis of diseases, the follow up of their treatment and to identify the trigger and trajectory of disease development. These solution open the path for preventive health care, early detection of diseases, a more patient-oriented therapeutic treatment and a reduction of cost of the healthcare system. In EDITH, VITO contributes to the vision of the virtual twin ecosystem and facilitates the secure, ethical and consent driven access to personal health data from a range of data resources. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Vacancies Various partner from our Consortium are opening job position and post-doc position for professional to work on the new inclusive ecosystem for Digital Twins in healthcare in Europe. VPHi for candidate with a background in Social Sciences or Communication Sciences for candidate with a background in Computer Modeling and Simulation, Digital Twins, Artificial Intelligence or Health Data European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Advisory Boards Industry Advisory Board (IAB) The Industry Advisory Board serf to ensure that the EDITH project will take into account the need and requirement of European innovator to deliver product and service that benefit citizen and patients. Members of the IAB meet periodically for discussion with expert from the EDITH consortium to review it development and services, and to provide input and feedback. The IAB wa constituted in December 2022 and will serve for the duration of the project. The member of the IAB represent the following company and industry associations: Agoria (Belgium) Ansys Avicenna Alliance Bitkom (Germany) Dassault Systmes DIGITALEUROPE Edwards Lifesciences ELEM Biotech Insilicare InSilicoTrials Johnson & Johnson Mediolanum Cardio Research (CRO) Novadiscovery Optum / UnitedHealth Philips Roche Siemens Healthineers Twinsight Virtonomy Voisin Consulting Life Sciences For more information, please . Clinical Advisory Board (CAB) Multi-Stakeholder Advisory Board (MSAB) European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Contact form All member of the ecosystem interested in EDITH and it proposal for the roadmap are welcome to join the upcoming public discussion and give their input. Fill the form below to join the EDITH public discussion channel on Slack, along with other expert from the consortium and beyond. By signing up through the form below, people agree to being contacted for EDITH-related purpose (newsletters, call for action, etc). Message Profile Affiliation academiaindustryhospital (health care provision)government/policyregulatoryother Personal Job Profile clinicalin silico modellingdata gathering/treatmentcomputing (HPC, cloud, )community & communicationregulatorystandardpolicyethical, legal, social implication Please read carefully the applicable Input this code: European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Call for use-cases Help u to collect all available resource for building the Virtual Human Twin (VHT). Independently of the degree of maturity or complexity of your resource, it can be included in the EDITH catalogue and federated repository. Please fill in the form below and we shall find together the most appropriate way for making it happen! European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved EDITH-CSA Ecosystem Meeting This second and last EDITH ecosystem meeting ha a it main purpose to inform the ecosystem of progress made on the Virtual Human Twin (VHT) roadmap and proof-of-concept EDITH infrastructure, to obtain input on the last open element in the VHT roadmap and to start the process of ecosystem validation for the VHT roadmap and it final recommendations. The meeting will be the conclusion of the work performed by the EDITH consortium, expert advisor and the entire ecosystem in a range of activity including online meetings, surveys, online discussions, public writing and physical expert and ecosystem meetings. Join u if you want to be part of shaping the future of the VHT, and ensure your scientific community perspective is well represented in the final VHT roadmap and recommendations. This meeting is part of the EDITH Coordination and Support Action funded by the Digital Europe program of the European Commission under grant agreement n. 101083771. Meeting program: The meeting will start on 15th of July at noon with a lunch and end on the 16th at 4pm. The program will include plenary talk by strategic keynote speakers, breakout session aimed to address the final open element in the VHT roadmap, and interactive plenary sessions. During the plenary sessions, the VHT EDITH infrastructure will be showcased and the breakout session will be reported. Additionally, the participant will be consulted to obtain their input on the plan for the VHT code of conduct, VHT sustainability plan and VHT roadmap recommendations. The detailed program will follow later. Registration: As the amount of place is limited to 275, please register . Contact: For practical inquiries: Conferences & Events: For question on reimbursement: For question on EDITH-CSA: ACCOMODATION INFORMATION The local organizing committee recommends the following hotel for your stay in Amsterdam: ; s Gravesandestraat 55, 1092 AA Amsterdam ; Mauritskade 61, 1092 AD Amsterdam ; Linneausstraat 89, 1093 EK Amsterdam ; Sarphatistraat 104, 1018 GV Amsterdam Low budget: ; Timorplein 21, 1094 CC Amsterdam Low budget: ; Mauritskade 57, 1092 AD Amsterdam VENUE INFORMATION Location KIT Royal Tropical Institute Mauritskade 64 1092 AD Amsterdam The Netherlands How to get to the venue Public transport Take a train from Schiphol Airport to train station Amsterdam Lelylaan and take the GVB tram 1 (with destination Muiderpoort Station) from train station Lelylaan to tram stop Linnaeusstraat/Wijttenbachstraat. From there you have to walk approximately 4 minute to KIT. Take a train from Schiphol Airport to train station Amsterdam Muiderpoort and take the GVB tram 1 (with destination Osdorp de Aker) from train station Muiderpoort to tram stop Linnaeusstraat/Wijttenbachstraat. From there you have to walk approximately 4 minute to KIT. Taxi Taxi there is also the possibility to call TCA (taxi Central Amsterdam) with number +31 020 777 7777 or check out their website: you could make a reservation in advance from Schiphol Airport a well with a preferred time Taxi: if you use the Uber app already, you could always book an Uber a well For all public transport details, you could also check out the app or website www.. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved EDITH European Virtual Human Twin Sign up at the: Vision Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is an integrated multiscale, multi-time, and multi-discipline representation of quantitative human physiology and pathology. Its realisation through a collaborative distributed knowledge and resource platform is specifically designed to accelerate the development, integration, and adoption of patient-specific predictive computer models, which will be used a clinical decision support systems, for personal health forecasting or a methodology for the development and de-risking of personalised medical products. The vision of EDITH is to facilitate the realisation of the opportunity presented by VHTs for the benefit of patients, healthcare providers, regulatory body and industry, both within Europe and globally. Mission EDITH is a Coordination and Support Action (CSA), funded by the European Commission, which will capitalise on the development of digital technologies, high performance computing, availability and access to research and healthcare data in Europe, with the mission of defining a roadmap to go from separated single organ systems, to data-driven and knowledge-driven fully integrated multiscale and multiorgan whole-body twin. EDITH will facilitate this process by building an evolutionary ecosystem, driven by a consensus among the relevant European communities, and implemented through the aid of practical tools, such a a data/model repository (within the scope of EDITH), and a simulation platform (to be implemented after EDITH). Focus A Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is a patient-specific virtual representation of real-world system or processes, that is built on data-driven or knowledge-driven - most often a combination of both - predictive computer models, and that can be used a a clinical decision-support system, a personal health forecasting tool or a a tool for the development and personalisation of medical products. The focus of EDITH is to propose how a fully integrated VHT can be developed, starting from single organ digital twins. Objectives ECOSYSTEM EDITH ha the objective to frame an inclusive ecosystem of digital twin in healthcare within the EU Member States and associated countries. It will start with a comprehensive mapping of the existing relevant actors, initiatives, resource (i.e., models, data sets, methods, good practices, infrastructures, solutions, services), and barrier in the digital twins. This will ensure adequate clinical representation, while fostering collaboration and integration of all relevant stakeholders, such a solution developers, technology providers, infrastructure providers, end-users (healthcare professional and patients), regulatory agencies, and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) bodies. ROADMAP EDITH ha the objective to build a roadmap with all the necessary condition to evolve towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). The roadmap will identify the necessary building block to ensure the VHTs clinical application and formulate clear short- and mid-term policy recommendations. It will also address aspect of interoperability, computability, health information integration from various sources. It will identify any possible implementation need and barriers, including the development of a strategic approach for clinical deployment of the VHT model. This will foster the uptake of personalised clinical decision-making, with a particular focus on area of unmet medical needs. REPOSITORY EDITH ha the objective to develop a federated and cloud-based repository of digital twin (data, models, algorithms, and good practices) in healthcare. The repository will provide a virtual collaboration environment for multiple user and organisations, that will pool together existing digital twin resource across Europe. The ecosystem will be leveraged to create a repository catalogue with available resource and recruit resource into the repository from the consortium and external contributors. Through a federated approach, link will be established with ongoing initiative that have complementary objectives. SIMULATION PLATFORM EDITH ha the objective to develop the architecture of a simulation platform that will support the transition towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). EDITHs platform, based on a personal user account with specific permissions, will outline how to provide user with a one-stop shop to design, develop, test, and validate single organ digital twins, and combine them with other twin to build integrated VHT models. Five use-cases (cancer, cardiovascular, intensive care, osteoporosis, brain) have been pre-selected to be developed a prototypes, representing the variety of functionality to be provided by the platform. News 17 April 2024 17 April 2024 14 March 2024 12 March 2024 20 February 2024 07 February 2024 05 February 2024 22 December 2023 05 December 2023 05 December 2023 European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 12 March 2024 FINAL EDITH-CSA ECOSYSTEM MEETING: 15-16 JULY 2024, KIT ROYAL TROPICAL INSTITUTE, AMSTERDAM The second and final EDITH Ecosystem Meeting will take place on 15 and 16 July 2024 in Amsterdam at the . The main purpose of this meeting is to inform the ecosystem about the progress on the Virtual Human Twin (VHT) roadmap and the proof-of-concept EDITH infrastructure, to receive input on the last open element of the VHT roadmap, and to start the process of the ecosystem validation for the VHT roadmap and it final recommendations. The meeting mark the conclusion of the work that the EDITH consortium, expert advisors, and the entire ecosystem have been doing in a series of activities, including online and physical meeting and discussion of expert and the ecosystem, surveys, and public writings. All member of the ecosystem and beyond are welcome and invited to participate! If you want to help shape the future of the VHT and ensure that your scientific community perspective is well represented in the final VHT roadmap and recommendations: Join u and sign up at the: ! European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 17 April 2024 Spot on a use case: Digital Twins in Intensive Care Early diagnosis and prognosis of impending critical syndrome are crucial for optimising therapeutic strategy in intensive care. The extensive data in the intensive care unit (ICU) can use machine learning model (ML) a the basis for patient-centred digital twin to manage the complexity and instability of critically ill patient health conditions. Building machine learning model in the ICU is supported by the Diagnostic Expert Advisor (DEA), a research platform that transforms heterogeneous ICU data into ML models. In the context of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), the feasibility of a prediction model for the syndrome developed within the DEA platform wa demonstrated. University Hospital Aachen () is bringing it experience in embedding DEA into the open EDITH platform, so that it could open the way for the prediction of other critical condition in ICU patients, such a septic shock, acute kidney injury. For more information see European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Category: News European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 17 April 2024 EDITH technical meeting: new insight for the future! From 15 to 17 April 2024, the EDITH consortium met for a technical meeting organised byat the co-working space in the centre of Athens, Greece. The first day wa dedicated to technical discussion and demonstration on the progress made so far on the different objectives, such a the simulation platform, the repository, the roadmap and the ecosystem in general. The core part of the meeting wa the preparation and presentation of several external use case tackled on the second day after a brief introduction of EDITH. EDITH use case are now ready to walk you through the EDITH platform. The essential tool and service will be incorporated into this initial version of the platform to provide an integrated demonstration. say Amaryllis Raouzaiou, responsible for simulation platform development. After the finishing touch made during the EDITH Athens meeting, the EDITH repository is now prepared to accept submission of new EDITH use case that will make available their models, workflows, and datasets to the EDITH Community.- Continued Sabato Mellone, resposible for the repository proof of concept. The meeting ended on the third day with a plenary session where the responsibility and gap in finalising the roadmap, including the recommendation for the European Commission, were defined and the EDITH sustainability and mapping were tackled. The adoption of Virtual Human Twins in healthcare must necessarily include the needs, want and expectation of the different stakeholder in the ecosystem; That is why in EDITH we follow an inclusive ecosystem approach for writing the roadmap, concluded Lies Geris, the EDITH project coordinator and the executive director. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Category: Event European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 14 March 2024 SPOT ON A USE-CASE: THE CARDIOVASCULAR APPLICATION Cardiovascular diseases, one of the most common cause of death in the EU, include atrial fibrillation, the most common form of cardiac arrhythmia, which affect over 37 million people worldwide. Atrial fibrillation is also more common in cancer patient and can lead to stroke or heart failure if not treated successfully. The underlying mechanism of this connection are still unclear. However, virtual twin could provide an ideal framework for their investigation. With the help of digital twin technology, researcher can more accurately predict a patient response to treatment and plan customised intervention if necessary. EDITH partner and offer a pathway to personalised in silico treatment planning and model prediction in clinical timeframes. To overcome the challenge of large-scale heart modelling, they are developing a robust open-source pipeline for constructing atrial model based on their previously developed method incorporating atrial region and fibres. These model were constructed a either two coupled surface (a bilayer model) or a volumetric model. In addition, a cohort of 1000 bi-atrial bilayer and volume model derived from computed tomography (CT) data, a well a model derived from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and electro-anatomical mapping data were created. Fibrillation dynamic diverged between the bilayer and volumetric simulation in the CT cohort. Structural and electrophysiological change in the cardiac tissue due to scar tissue were found to stabilise the re-entries and reduce the impact of the model type (bilayer or volumetric). These model can be used to compare response to different treatment approaches. Overall, and are successfully testing the integration of the respective resource and cardiac modelling workflow a a proof-of-concept for the creation of virtual human twin (VHTs) and the development of a user-friendly open-source pipeline to generate atrial model from imaging or electro-anatomical mapping data, enabling large-scale in silico clinical studies. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 12 March 2024 FINAL EDITH-CSA ECOSYSTEM MEETING: 15-16 JULY 2024, KIT ROYAL TROPICAL INSTITUTE, AMSTERDAM The second and final EDITH Ecosystem Meeting will take place on 15 and 16 July 2024 in Amsterdam at the . The main purpose of this meeting is to inform the ecosystem about the progress on the Virtual Human Twin (VHT) roadmap and the proof-of-concept EDITH infrastructure, to receive input on the last open element of the VHT roadmap, and to start the process of the ecosystem validation for the VHT roadmap and it final recommendations. The meeting mark the conclusion of the work that the EDITH consortium, expert advisors, and the entire ecosystem have been doing in a series of activities, including online and physical meeting and discussion of expert and the ecosystem, surveys, and public writings. All member of the ecosystem and beyond are welcome and invited to participate! If you want to help shape the future of the VHT and ensure that your scientific community perspective is well represented in the final VHT roadmap and recommendations: Join u and sign up at the: ! European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 20 February 2024 FIRST ECOSYSTEM MEETING TO BUILD THE VHT: BEYOND THE FULFILMENT OF EDITHS MISSION! The First ecosystem meeting on building the VHT, a productive two-day event, took place at the , France on January 18-19. Over 175 people registered for the meeting, representing all aspect of the ecosystem: academia, industry, research institutes, hospitals, HPC centres, HTA agencies, legal offices, ethic societies, a well a social sciences, civil and patient organisations. The participant were welcomed by the host of the event, Irene Vignon-Clementel, Marie-Hlne Pautrat, Abdul Barakat (), and Jean Colombel (3DS). Liesbet Geris, Professor in Biomechanics and Computational Tissue Engineering at the University of Lige and KU Leuven,the EDITH project coordinator and the executive director, introduced the meeting organisation: several plenary session, along with fourteen parallel breakout session focussed on EDITH key themes. The parallel session throughout both day fuelled the discussion around key aspect for the realization of the Virtual Human Twin: resource integration, ethics, data generation, business models, platform process and services, usability, standard for digital twins, clinical engagement, infrastructure and networks, contribution to the VHT resource via new use-cases, AI, incentivization, ecosystem economic preconditions, and social trust. All session were led by high-calibre speaker from the EDITH consortium and partners, includingAmaryllis Raouzaiou (), Adrian Ionescu, (), Martin Golebiewski and Gerhard Mayer (), Irene Vignon-Clementel, Roel Meiburg, and Anna Niarakis(), Ine Van Hoyweghen, Elisabetta Biasin, Elisa Lievevrouw, Elisa Leila Elhadj (), Edwin Morley-Fletcher (), Enzo Fabiani (), Caroline Roney, Elisa Rauseo, and Laura Bevis (), Sabato Mellone(), Alfons Hoekstra (), Gkhan Ertaylan, Elfi Goesaert and Frederic Jung (), and Zita Van Horenbeeck(). In his plenary address, the European Commission representative, Kyriacos Hatzaras (), called upon all participant to brainstorm and participate in setting short- and medium-term goal for the fulfilment of EDITHs objectives, to align the vision of the entire ecosystem and it stakeholder to realise the Virtual Human Twin. The second day of work started with a presentation on The Clinical Perspective on Virtual Human Twins by Eric Vibert () and ended with plenary presentation of the existing platform and large scale initiative such a BBMRI-ERIC (Konrad Lang, ), EBRAINS (Victor Jirsa, ) and the 12 Labours project (Thiranja Prasad Babarenda Gamage, ). Finally, the valuable insight from the breakout session report provided additional inspiration for tackling some of the identified challenges. Over the last couple of months, the ecosystem ha demonstrated a very strong interest and commitment to deploy and realise the Virtual Human Twin for health and care. At the Paris meeting, we had a solid representation of all stakeholder in the ecosystem and hence were able to address a wide range of topic from many angles. These input will further ensure the VHT roadmap to be representing the interest of the entire ecosystem. Concluded Liesbet Geris. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 07 February 2024 InnovaHeart 2024: A stepping point for the future! The second edition of , the European workshop on the digital heart, took place on 6 and 7 February 2024 at the , Leuven in Belgium. This event is the result of a joint effort of the EDITH Horizon Europe CSA together with the EIT Health innovation project , and Horizon 2020 RIA of the cluster Accelerating the uptake of computer simulation for testing medicine and medical device (SC1-DTH-06-2020). The aim of this workshop wa to bring together several expert in cardiovascular modelling from different fields, including academia, industry, regulatory authority and notified bodies, to discuss, among other things, advance in modelling and simulation in cardiovascular medicine, with a focus on the challenge of translating in-silico model into clinical applications. Several keynote speech and working groups, such a Translation of industry problems, moderated by Liesbet Geris, the EDITH project coordinator and executive director of the VPH Institute, addressed the purpose of in-silico model in industry and focussed on open question from the private sector, the need for regulatory validation and clinical and in-silico studies. Finally, this two-day event also presented finding on the translation of in-silico study result into relevant endpoint for clinical evaluation and the credibility and predictive value of in-silico models. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 05 February 2024 Spot on a EDITH use case: The innovative EPFL biosensing platform According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), , making them the leading cause of death worldwide. This urgency ha led to a growing interest in continuous on-site monitoring of specific biomarkers that pave the way for early diagnosis and more effective treatment and follow-up. In response, there is an urgent need to identify cardiac biomarkers early to mitigate patient outcome and mortality based on more proactive approaches. These approach are enabled by the use of Digital Twins (DTs). EDITH partner is developing an innovative, wearable biosensing platform a a data generator for future human DTs, using electrical sensor technology to enable multiplexed real-time detection of key cardiovascular marker with high sensitivity and selectivity. By analysing the interstitial fluid, the solution provides a dynamic and comprehensive overview of a patient cardiovascular status. The real-time data generated by the platform serf a the basis for building a dynamic DT with predictive capabilities. This facilitates rapid medical intervention and clinical decision to achieve the best possible outcome for the patient while reducing medical errors. Some of the result will be presented at the upcoming in 2024, organised by the European Innovation Council (EIC) proactive project , and , with the participation of the EDITH coordinator and it partners. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 22 December 2023 The Virtual Human Twins Manifesto is online! The , a Statement of Intent on Development, Evidence and Adoption in Health Systems, is online! As an essential element of the European VHT initiative, this Statement not only foster collaboration in the current VHT ecosystem by bringing together different ecosystem player supporting this flagship initiative of the European Commission, but also facilitates the framework for further collaboration. The European VHT initiative promotes and accelerates the development of integrated, validated digital representation of the human body. VHTs hold significant potential for medical research and healthcare by contributing to a deeper understanding of human physiology, pathology and disease aetiology and enabling personalised, patient-centred medicine. This initiative includes the planned European VHT platform, which will enable the pooling of resource and asset to further develop the science and technology needed to build VHTs solution in health and care. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 05 December 2023 Spot on a EDITH use-case: Osteoporosis The most catastrophic fracture that older people affected by osteoporosis can suffer is that of the femur: 20% of patient die within a year because of the fracture, and the vast majority never regain their original mobility and independence. Osteoporosis is a disease that affect the bone and make them more fragile, so that an otherwise harmless fall can lead to a fracture. It mainly affect older woman who show no symptom prior to the fracture event. It is therefore of the utmost importance to recognise patient at high risk of fracture at an early stage and to initiate therapy and interventions. The EDITH partner, the , ha developed a new digital twin for the use-case osteoporosis to predict the risk of femur fracture in elderly patient based on a femur CT scan. This solution combine patient-specific bone model with stochastic fall model to account for variability and increase accuracy and applicability. The model help healthcare professional to ass patient fracture risk and adapt behavioural and pharmacological treatment. This digital twin ha surpassed the current clinical standard for osteoporosis diagnosis based on retrospective data and is now involved in a clinical trial for validation with a prospective cohort. European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved | 05 December 2023 First ecosystem meeting on building the VHT! 18-19 January 2024, Institut Polytechnique, Paris The first ecosystem meeting on building the VHT will take place on 18 and 19 January 2024 at the Institut Polytechnique de Paris, France. With the help of the consortium, the advisory boards, the expert and the wider ecosystem (through public meeting and a public feedback phase), EDITH-CSA ha created a first draft of the . Its main purpose is to identify the different element that need to be elaborated and supported within the VHT. The aim of this first meeting is to continue working on the VHT roadmap and ensure that it contains all the necessary building block and consideration to realise the VHT. Therefore, the meeting will consist of a mix of plenary session and breakout covering (among others) topic such a clinical uptake, commercialisation, real-world data, AI, ethics, integration of resources, European platforms, incentivization, and new use-cases. At the end of the meeting, the work (developing and writing) and the organisation (working groups, online meetings, Slack) will be structured for the next 6 months. All this work will be brought together during the second public VHT ecosystem meeting (on 15-16 July 2024 in KIT, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) and translated into a tangible 10-year plan. All member of the ecosystem, including (but not limited to) colleague from academia, industry, research institutes, hospitals, HPC centres, regulators, notified bodies, HTA agencies, law firms, ethic society a well a social sciences, citizen and patient organisation are invited to participate! Further information and registration at: . European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved EDITH European Virtual Human Twin Sign up at the: Vision Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is an integrated multiscale, multi-time, and multi-discipline representation of quantitative human physiology and pathology. Its realisation through a collaborative distributed knowledge and resource platform is specifically designed to accelerate the development, integration, and adoption of patient-specific predictive computer models, which will be used a clinical decision support systems, for personal health forecasting or a methodology for the development and de-risking of personalised medical products. The vision of EDITH is to facilitate the realisation of the opportunity presented by VHTs for the benefit of patients, healthcare providers, regulatory body and industry, both within Europe and globally. Mission EDITH is a Coordination and Support Action (CSA), funded by the European Commission, which will capitalise on the development of digital technologies, high performance computing, availability and access to research and healthcare data in Europe, with the mission of defining a roadmap to go from separated single organ systems, to data-driven and knowledge-driven fully integrated multiscale and multiorgan whole-body twin. EDITH will facilitate this process by building an evolutionary ecosystem, driven by a consensus among the relevant European communities, and implemented through the aid of practical tools, such a a data/model repository (within the scope of EDITH), and a simulation platform (to be implemented after EDITH). Focus A Virtual Human Twin (VHT) is a patient-specific virtual representation of real-world system or processes, that is built on data-driven or knowledge-driven - most often a combination of both - predictive computer models, and that can be used a a clinical decision-support system, a personal health forecasting tool or a a tool for the development and personalisation of medical products. The focus of EDITH is to propose how a fully integrated VHT can be developed, starting from single organ digital twins. Objectives ECOSYSTEM EDITH ha the objective to frame an inclusive ecosystem of digital twin in healthcare within the EU Member States and associated countries. It will start with a comprehensive mapping of the existing relevant actors, initiatives, resource (i.e., models, data sets, methods, good practices, infrastructures, solutions, services), and barrier in the digital twins. This will ensure adequate clinical representation, while fostering collaboration and integration of all relevant stakeholders, such a solution developers, technology providers, infrastructure providers, end-users (healthcare professional and patients), regulatory agencies, and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) bodies. ROADMAP EDITH ha the objective to build a roadmap with all the necessary condition to evolve towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). The roadmap will identify the necessary building block to ensure the VHTs clinical application and formulate clear short- and mid-term policy recommendations. It will also address aspect of interoperability, computability, health information integration from various sources. It will identify any possible implementation need and barriers, including the development of a strategic approach for clinical deployment of the VHT model. This will foster the uptake of personalised clinical decision-making, with a particular focus on area of unmet medical needs. REPOSITORY EDITH ha the objective to develop a federated and cloud-based repository of digital twin (data, models, algorithms, and good practices) in healthcare. The repository will provide a virtual collaboration environment for multiple user and organisations, that will pool together existing digital twin resource across Europe. The ecosystem will be leveraged to create a repository catalogue with available resource and recruit resource into the repository from the consortium and external contributors. Through a federated approach, link will be established with ongoing initiative that have complementary objectives. SIMULATION PLATFORM EDITH ha the objective to develop the architecture of a simulation platform that will support the transition towards an integrated Virtual Human Twin (VHT). EDITHs platform, based on a personal user account with specific permissions, will outline how to provide user with a one-stop shop to design, develop, test, and validate single organ digital twins, and combine them with other twin to build integrated VHT models. Five use-cases (cancer, cardiovascular, intensive care, osteoporosis, brain) have been pre-selected to be developed a prototypes, representing the variety of functionality to be provided by the platform. News 17 April 2024 17 April 2024 14 March 2024 12 March 2024 20 February 2024 07 February 2024 05 February 2024 22 December 2023 05 December 2023 05 December 2023 European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED - Project Crowdsourcing Dissemination Consortium Get Involved Privacy Policy This Privacy Policy describes the personal data processing operation carried out on and through this website, www.edith-csa.eu (Website). Please note that this Privacy Policy applies to anyone who access and visits, or otherwise interacts with, the Website (Users). All processing activity will be carried out in compliance with the applicable data protection legislation, with particular regard to the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). 1. DATA CONTROLLER The Controller is the EDITH Consortium, a made up by all partner listed (Consortium or Controller). Users can at any time send request to one or more partners, using the individual contact which are published for each Consortium member. 2. THE WEBSITE This Website aim to provide information and update regarding Ecosystem for DIgital Twins in Healthcare (EDITH), a project funded by the European Commission Digital Europe Programme. It is designed to minimize the collection and processing of Users personal data. 3. COOKIES A cookie is a small file, typically made up of letter and numbers, downloaded on to a device when the User access a website. Cookies are then sent back to the originating website on each subsequent visit by the User. Cookies are useful, therefore, because they allow a website to recognize a Users device and the choice and setting associated to it. Some cooky are strictly necessary for the correct functioning of Internet and the Website and do not require Users consent, such a those ensuring web security. Other type of cooky are still important, but not necessary and so can be installed only insofar the Users provided their consent. This Website installs cooky only to allow the Users to flawlessly navigate through it page and section and to smoothly enjoy it contents, a well a to generate fully anonymous statistic regarding the volume of visits. These cooky can be used without Users consent. 4. CATEGORIES OF PERSONAL DATA COLLECTED Internet data Computer system and software procedure used to operate the Website acquire, during their normal operation, some personal data needed for the use of Internet communication protocol (e.g. IP addresses, Browser type, Operating System, the time of access and period of Users staying on a single page). These technical / IT data are collected through cooky and used only in an aggregated and not immediately identifiable manner and can be used to ascertain responsibility in case of crimes, or upon public authority request. Personal data provided by the User There are few section of the Website (e.g. Contact us) where Users can freely provide some personal data (e.g. name, surname, email address, working information) for the purpose set out below. Registration data Users are required to register, by providing only first and last name and a valid e-mail, in order to get access to the EDITH-CSA knowledge base () Application (APP). 5. PURPOSE AND LEGAL BASES OF THE PROCESSING The Users personal data will be processed solely for the following purposes: a) allowing the User to navigate the Website easily and seamlessly. This processing is necessary to run the Website and to allow the User to access it contents, according to Art. 6.1, b) of the GDPR; b) receiving, evaluating and, in case, including new use-cases proposed by the User through the descriptive form available on the Website (). This processing is needed to follow-up the request submitted by the User, according to Art. 6.1, b) of the GDPR; c) fulfill any request made by the User through the contact form available on the Website (), including providing them with the password needed to access the virtual repository of current scientific papers, according to Art. 6.1, b) of the GDPR; d) permitting the Users registration needed to access the EDITH-CSA knowledge base APP; e) complying with decision and order issued by competent authorities, a well a with the obligation set forth by applicable law and regulations, pursuant to Art. 6.1, c) of the GDPR; f) pursuing the Consortiums or any of it Partners legitimate interest to establish or defend legal claims, a per Art. 6.1, f) of the GDPR. 6. EDITH-CSA KNOWLEDGE BASE APP By finalizing the registration to access the APP, the User warrant and declare that he/she shall: a. not use, or permit to use, the APP for: a. any commercial or professional service or purposes; b. any purpose which is not compliant with it intended scientific nature, or in any manner obscene, inappropriate, defamatory, indecent, offensive, threatening, abusive or discriminatory; c. purpose that may cause or result in a violation of the applicable law, regulations, or applicable provision or decision of competent Authorities; b. not make unauthorized copies, or modify, reverse engineer, decompile, extract information from, or create derivative work of the APP; c. not distribute, license (or sub-license), transfer, market, rent, lease or sell all or part of the APP or it components; d. not interfere or attempt to interfere with the correct functioning of the APP, or cause it interruption of use; e. bypass any measure adopted by the Consortium to control and limit access to the APP; f. incorporate the APP, or any part thereof, into any other program or product, unless expressly authorized by the Consortium in writing. The User declares to be aware that the APP wa built based on Large Language Model named GPT which wa developed and the sole property of OpenAI. The Consortium shall hold no right over GPT model. Accordingly, the User is aware and accepts, on the one hand, that the proper functioning of the APP is totally dependent on GPT and totally out of the reasonable control of the Consortium, and on the other hand, to hold the exclusive control over any content generated through the APP. 7. METHODS OF THE PROCESSING AND DATA SECURITY The personal data are collected and processed lawfully and fairly, solely for the purpose described above and in accordance with the fundamental principle established by the applicable legislation. Personal data may be processed either manually, through information technology tool or electronically, in any case under technical and organizational measure that enable ensuring their security and confidentiality, especially for the purpose of preventing any risk arising from accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of or access to personal data. Processing activity will be carried out, under the Consortiums control, only by personnel duly authorized to access and process the Users personal data in accordance with specific data protection and security instruction provided by each Partner, with a particular view to safeguarding the right of the Users under the GDPR. Under no circumstance personal data may undergo automated decision-making processes, including profiling. 8. COMMUNICATIONS TO THIRD PARTIES The personal data collected by the Consortium will not be shared or communicated to third parties, unless upon specific consent of the data subject, or a otherwise required by applicable laws. Should the communication to third-party vendor or partner of the Consortiums (e.g. service providers, hosting providers, IT companies, communication agencies) be necessary for organizational, administrative or support needs, it will be the Controllers responsibility to appoint such party a data processor by virtue of their capacity, experience and reliability, a per Art. 28 of the GDPR. It is understood that the Users personal data can be made available to third parties, such a public or judicial authorities, whenever this is required by applicable law or by an order issued by them. 9. DATA RETENTION a. Internet data will be kept for no longer than 7 days; b. personal data provided by the Users in relation to the application for new use-cases will be retained until the end of the EDITH project, in case of inclusion, or for a maximum of 6 months, in case of refusal; c. personal data provided through the contact form will be retained for no longer than 2 month after fulfilling the relevant request; d. registration data will be kept until the User request the cancellation of his/her registration. Subject to the above, Users data will be kept for those further period which are required or expressly permitted by applicable law and regulations, with particular reference to the fulfilment of order issued by competent authority and the enforcement and/or protection of the Controllers right (consistent with the retention period and statute of limitation provided for by the law), where necessary. When no longer necessary, the data will be immediately cancelled or made anonymous. 10. TRANSFER OF DATA ABROAD The Users personal data will not be transferred outside the European Economic Area (hereinafter, the EEA). In any case, should the need to transfer Users data to third country arise in the future for any reason, the relevant transmission will be subject to specific data protection guarantee by the Consortium, a required by the law, e.g. through the adoption of Standard Contractual Clauses a approved by the European Commission, or other equivalent safeguards. 11. REDIRECT TO OTHER WEB SITES The Website may incorporate link which allow the User to connect to other website run by third parties. The Controller is not responsible for the data processing carried out through and/or in connection with such third party websites. Therefore, each User who access other web page through the Website must carefully read their privacy policy to better understand how their personal data will be processed by the third party which, a autonomous controllers, will provide and manage such websites. 12. DATA SUBJECTS RIGHTS The Users can exercise their right at any time, including: a) accessing their personal data, obtaining evidence among others of the purpose pursued by the Consortium, the category of data involved, the recipient to whom they may be disclosed, the applicable storage period, the existence of automated decision-making processes; b) having incorrect personal data referred to them rectified without delay; c) having their data erased in the case provided for by the law; d) obtaining restriction to processing, where possible; e) requesting portability of the data provided to the Consortium, i.e. receiving them in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format, also for transmitting such data to another controller, without any hindrance by the Controller, in all situation where it is required by the law in force; f) easily withdrawing any consent they have previously given, without this affecting in any manner the lawfulness of the processing operation carried out before; g) lodging a complaint to the competent Supervisory Authorities (of DPAs in Europe). To exercise these rights, or for any further information and/or clarifications, please write to the Consortium, by sending an email to info@edith-csa.eu. 13. POLICY UPDATING This Policy may be updated periodically at the Consortiums sole discretion. Therefore, Users are recommended to read it every time they access the Website. Below is highlighted the date when the last version of this Policy ha been uploaded. Last Update: 27/10/2023 European Virtual Human Twin info@edith-csa.eu 2022 EDITH - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED -