Belgian node of ELIXIR. A Node is a network of organisation that work within a member state. Each Node ha a lead organisation that coordinate the local ELIXIR activities. In Belgium that's VIB, a life science research institute performing basic research with a strong focus on translating scientific result into pharmaceutical, agricultural and industrial applications. ELIXIR Belgium brings together experience around data management, analysis workflow and data related trainings. ELIXIR Belgium focus on upgrading the current ELIXIR Belgium node service in order to bring data to a higher level of FAIRness (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable). ELIXIR Belgium provides domain specific bioinformatic tool and resource for Plant and Biodiversity, Human Health and COVID-19 research, and general service to support research data management and data analysis in life sciences. We pursue to extend the functionality and compatibility of the online service developed by different Belgian research groups. Services from partner institute can become an ELIXIR Belgium Node Service after review by our international Scientific Advisory Board. Main navigation Submitted by stker on Sat, 12/01/2018 - 11:09 Sliders ELIXIR Belgium support open data ENA Data Submission Toolbox Tool to facilitate the submission of raw read and assembled sequence to the European Nucleotide Archive Funded by the European Commission ELIXIR-STEERS Enhancing research software management in life science Developed at Ghent University Unipept An open source web application designed for metaproteomics data analysis ELIXIR Belgium ELIXIR Belgium is the national node of ELIXIR, the intergovernmental organisation that brings together life science resource from across Europe, supporting life science research and it translation to medicine, environment, the bio-industries and society. The research infrastructure provides platform and guidance for research data management and reproducible data analysis, and offer domain specific service for Plant and Biodiversity, Human health and COVID-19 research. ELIXIR Belgium also provides data related training and workshops. Partners All Flemish university and two Walloon university are partner in the ELIXIR Belgium consortium, a well a VIB and Sciensano. These partner cover the major provider of bioinformatics infrastructure in Belgium. Visit the About page to learn more on ELIXIR Belgium's organisation and partners. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by stker on Sat, 12/01/2018 - 11:09 Sliders ELIXIR Belgium support open data ENA Data Submission Toolbox Tool to facilitate the submission of raw read and assembled sequence to the European Nucleotide Archive Funded by the European Commission ELIXIR-STEERS Enhancing research software management in life science Developed at Ghent University Unipept An open source web application designed for metaproteomics data analysis ELIXIR Belgium ELIXIR Belgium is the national node of ELIXIR, the intergovernmental organisation that brings together life science resource from across Europe, supporting life science research and it translation to medicine, environment, the bio-industries and society. The research infrastructure provides platform and guidance for research data management and reproducible data analysis, and offer domain specific service for Plant and Biodiversity, Human health and COVID-19 research. ELIXIR Belgium also provides data related training and workshops. Partners All Flemish university and two Walloon university are partner in the ELIXIR Belgium consortium, a well a VIB and Sciensano. These partner cover the major provider of bioinformatics infrastructure in Belgium. Visit the About page to learn more on ELIXIR Belgium's organisation and partners. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by stker on Sun, 12/02/2018 - 12:39 Our Node ELIXIR Belgium joined ELIXIR a a full member in November 2015. The Belgian node brings together experience around data management, analysis workflow and data related trainings. ELIXIR Belgium focus on upgrading the current ELIXIR Belgium node service in order to bring data to a higher level of FAIRness (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable). Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Fri, 10/22/2021 - 11:51 Services ELIXIR Belgium provides domain specific bioinformatic tool and resource for Plant and Biodiversity, Human Health and COVID-19 research, and general service to support research data management and data analysis in life sciences. We pursue to extend the functionality and compatibility of the online service developed by different Belgian research groups. Services from partner institute can become an ELIXIR Belgium Node Service after review by our international Scientific Advisory Board. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Fri, 10/22/2021 - 11:05 Projects ELIXIR Belgium is financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO). Next to this national funding we obtain financial resource from European grant and technical project funded by the ELIXIR Hub. Ongoing Integrated SERVices supporting a sustainable AGROecological transition (AgroServ) is a 15 million Horizon Europe project, coordinated by AnaEE. The project aim to provide access to integrated research service to the European research community to advance knowledge on agroecosystems, increase the understanding of the risk and threat due to global change and foster the development of new Ongoing "Decipher cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYPs) by digital tool to produce flavonoid and terpenoids" (deCYPher) is a 6 million Horizon Europe Research and Innovation Actions (RIA) project, coordinated by Ghent University. deCYPher aim to develop a standardised platform to implement artificial intelligence and machine learning technique to overcome current hurdle in industrial biotechnology and Ongoing A European Network of TRUSTed research environmentsEOSC-ENTRUST is a 3 year Horizon Europe project (Trusted environment for sensitive data management in EOSC) led by ELIXIR. The mission of EOSC-ENTRUST is to create a European network of Trusted Research Environments (TREs) for sensitive data and to drive European interoperability by joint development of a common blueprint for federated data Ongoing The EU-funded ELIXIR-STEERS project, a three-year initiative with a budget of 4M, is a collaboration between all ELIXIR Nodes, encompassing 36 institute across 23 countries, plus EMBL-EBI. It aim to enhance large-scale, cross-border federated analysis in the life science throughout the European Research Area. ELIXIR-STEERS address the need for good software and workflow management, which Ongoing The Research Foundation Flanders (FWO) awarded the ELIXIR Belgium consortium a 4-year grant of 7.8M to continue to operate the Belgian ELIXIR Node, providing service to life science researchers. This infrastructure funding allows the partner to expand and improve our portfolio of services. ELIXIR is in a unique position to increase the amount of publicly available FAIR data and facilitate it Ongoing The Interoperability Platform's mission go beyond technical and semantic interoperability, responding to changing need and life science standards. Previously, the ELIXIR Interoperability Platform introduced peer-reviewed Recommended Interoperability Resources, established the ELIXIR Knowledge Hub, and fostered recognition of Research Data Management (RDM). Now it is transitioning to a Ongoing The ELIXIR Compute Platform ensures that European cloud, compute, storage and access service fulfil the requirement of and are available for the life-science research community. European regulation on health data processing is evolving, computing capacity in national cloud is increasing and international standard are improving interoperability between the compute environments. Such Ongoing The ELIXIR Training Platform ha built an extensive network that represents a wide range of training resource and services. The aim of this project is not only to manage this network but to evolve it, standardise it and connect all it different components. In doing so, a federated training establishment can be created that effectively caters to the diverse need of the ELIXIR community. To Ongoing The European Viral Outbreak Research Alliance (EVORA) project brings together three RIs (EVA, ERINHA-ESFRI and ELIXIR-ESFRI) with unique and complementary expertise in bio-banking, high containment facility and data management solutions, respectively, under a single concerted interoperable framework with a common and long-term perspective. EVORA will establish a comprehensive, coordinated, Ongoing The ELIXIR Data Platform ha been successful in creating a vibrant group of people interested in all aspect of life science data, from generation and curation to storage, archiving, use and reuse. It ha achieved it first mission and defined a sustainable and well-funded collection of Core Data Resources that represent the gold standard. It ha more recently begun developing and defining tool Ongoing The Tools Platform provides service that enable findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability of computational tools, including research software, workflows, remote digital services, and trained machine-learning models. These service aim at being optimised for the need of molecular life sciences, while at the same time they suit a broad range of interdisciplinary application Ongoing The Genomic Data Infrastructure (GDI) project brings together national agencies, research organisations, and technology provider from 20 European country to facilitate a cross-border federated network of national genome collection for biomedical research and personalised medicine solutions. The aim of this 40 million Digital Europe project, coordinated by ELIXIR, is to realise the 1+MG Ongoing QUANTUM is a Horizon Europe Coordination and Support Action (CSA) project in the context of the European Health Data Space. The project will set out a common EU framework for the use of health data in research, innovation, public health, policy-making, regulatory activity and personalised medicine. In HealthData@EU, the data holder are expected to make their datasets available for secondary Ongoing The Belgian Genome Biobank (BGB) project, funded by the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), aim to create a genomic resource of the Flemish/Belgian population in a secure compute environment, with the objective of supporting and performing genetic and health studies, in order to enable future research on genetic cause and (risk) factor for human traits, disease and their environmental Ongoing Research Data Management (RDM) is crucial for implementing FAIR and Open Science principles. ELIXIR Platforms and Nodes have invested in RDM, resulting in valuable tool and resources. The RDM Community aim to bring together RDM professional to coordinate ELIXIR's activity and develop it vision. The short-term objective include creating a knowledge exchange forum, coordinating the RDM Ongoing The EuroScienceGateway project aim to leverage a distributed computing network across 13 European countries, accessible via 6 national user-friendly web portal (Galaxy), facilitating access to compute and storage infrastructure across Europe a well a to data, tools, workflow and service that can be customized to suit researchers' needs. The project is a collaboration between 18 Ongoing Single-cell omics ha revolutionised the way life science research is conducted. However, the unprecedented opportunity offered by single-cell omics technology are accompanied by data analysis challenges. SCONE will address the need for scalable training by training more trainer and by providing easy access to up-to-date training resources. Efficient benchmarking of analysis tool will be Ongoing BY-COVIDis a 12 million Horizon Europe project, coordinated by ELIXIR, thatstrives to tackle the data challenge that can hinder effective pandemic response.The core aim of the project is to ensure that data on SARS-CoV-2 and other infectious disease are accessible to all those who need it across research, healthcare, and industry. BY-COVID will build and expand upon the successfulCOVID-19 The ELIXIR Tools Platform Ecosystem, initiated by the ELIXIR Tools Platform, is a diverse and open initiative focused on the metadata exchange across registry and repositories. Its goal is to facilitate coordination among them, enhance interoperability, reduce mismatching information, promote good practice for resource enabling community curation and contribute towards the sustainability of Over the next two years, the ELIXIR Interoperability Platform (EIP) will build on the extensive interoperability capacity building that ha taken place to date, and deliver a set of interoperability story that showcase EIP flagship interoperability service in action, and provide practical advice and guidance on the production of FAIR data and data analyses. The scope of this task is to The main goal for the ELIXIR Federated Human Data (FHD) Community is to position the Federated EGA (FEGA) framework a the core infrastructure driver to support human data sharing for research use-cases from nationally, European Commission, and/or internationally funded human health data sharing projects. The Deliverables from this project will be incorporated by the FEGA governance framework to The ELIXIR Interoperability Platform (EIP) KnowledgeHub is proposed a a systematic approach to collate and disseminate knowledge, working in close partnership with the FAIR Services Architecture Framework to support and provide a dissemination forum for the output generated from Task 1. The aim is to provide resource for both ELIXIR user and external researchers, and to act a a knowledge The ELIXIR Rare Disease (RD) Community will continue to be committed to the International Rare Disease Research Consortium (IRDiRC) Vision for 2027: Enable all people living with a rare disease to receive an accurate diagnosis, care, and available therapy within one year of coming to medical attention. To support such vision and facilitate data interoperability and analysis, the Community drive The ELIXIR Training Platform ha developed a series of training best practice and guidelines, covering several aspect of training development and delivery. These practice are the building block of the ELIXIR Training Toolkit, a collection of resource available in the ELIXIR website. Task 3 of this implementation study focus on consolidating quality and impact of the TeSS training The EOSC-Life projectis a collaboration of 13 ESFRI Research infrastructure in the Health and Food domain to create an open collaborative digital space for life science in the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC). The project is coordinated by ELIXIR. Life science research directly address key societal challenge and drive the bio-economy. To keep European Life Science at the forefront of ELIXIR-CONVERGE is a project funded by the European Commission to help standardise life science data management across Europe. To achieve this standardisation, the project willdevelop a data management toolkit for life scientists. The toolkit will help ensure more research data is in the public domain, which will give scientist access to more data. This will allow them to discover new insight Building on the knowledge and experience gained during the piloting of the RI-PATHS approach, an ELIXIR-funded Staff Exchange project, and related work done elsewhere in ELIXIR, this project aim to increase capacity in impact evaluation across a set of national ELIXIR Nodes. With support from the ELIXIR Hub, activity will be undertaken in coordination with relevant work being done a part This implementation study will create infrastructure to chart the experimentally sampledconformational diversity of native protein by exploiting data from the PDB, augmented withresults of state-of-the-art computational tools. By integrating resource and tools, workflow will be developed to: compare and cluster different conformation adopted by homologs of the same protein and identify The increasingly well-documented role of intrinsic disorder in protein behavior and function requires infrastructure improvement to enable enhanced researcher access to related tool and data. A key existing infrastructure is MobiDB, which provides sequence-based prediction for the entire set of UniProtKB protein from a number of different prediction tools. In addition, current prediction The aim of this new strategic implementation study (SIS) is to build on the current progress made through the ongoing implementation study, enabling the adoption and deployment of protocol and service by the broader ELIXIR community at scale. The first SIS Containers study (2019-2021) ha successfully convened and established a growing ELIXIR wide consensus on high-level community-driven This project focus on the enhancement of Galaxy's data management feature to provide additional provenance information and improve the integration of Galaxy in the existing data management ecosystem. Existing technology and service in ELIXIR will be supported and ongoing international project (ELIXIR-CONVERGE, the COVID-19 Data Portal, EOSC-Life, etc.) will be complemented while building Following previous work by the ELIXIR Proteomics Community, PRIDE public proteomics datasets, a well a some open proteomics data analysis pipeline are starting to become available.This follow-on ELIXIR implementation study will use previous result a the base to develop a set of open and user-friendly analysis pipelines, which will be applied to ass the possibility for performing more Though the Plant Sciences Community ha already implemented some critical element of it roadmap, the project plan for this community implementation study feature three key objectives, with each objective addressed in a corresponding work package: Firstly, the promotion and finalizing of plant service and tool through ELIXIR service bundles. The first work-package of the study aim at With intrinsically disordered protein (IDPs) and intrinsically disordered region (IDRs) now recognised a major determinant in cellular regulation, the ELIXIR IDP community white paper present a roadmap for e-infrastructure development in the field of IDP research within the ELIXIR framework. The goal of these development is to drive the creation of tool and resource to support the With this grant, awarded by the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), we have the ambitious goal of building a truly integrated community of bioinformatics infrastructure. Therefore, we focus on collaboration with national (e.g. dmponline.be, VSC) and international (ELIXIR Communities, Galaxy, FAIRDOM, ) consortium and initiatives. More specifically, we will be active in the field of data The structural Bioinformatics Community (3D-BioInfo) ha the mission to better integrate protein structure-based data and tool across Europe, and to improve standardisation through better ontology and agreed benchmarking. The tie with the structural biology research community in Europe will be strengthened and dedicated training and outreach effort will be taken. Four major topic form the Many country in Europe have nascent personalised medicine programme indicating a shift in human genomics from a predominantly research-driven activity to one funded through healthcare. This is evidenced by the declaration of many European country to sequence and share transnationally at least 1 million genome by 2022. As healthcare is subject to national laws, genetic data generated in this Bioschemas leveragesSchema.org, a widely implemented community effort supported by the main search engine to provide a way to add semantic markup to webpages. By enriching webpage with Bioschemas annotation, independently published content can be harvested and used by other resource without the need for APIs. As such, Bioschemas ha the potential to boost Open and FAIR science. This study Software container are a key element in the frame of Open Science & Open Source which is strongly supported and advocated by ELIXIR. Software container guarantee data provenance when described a part of scientific workflow and are an important element towards reproducibility. This study is divided into three work-packages that complement each other: WP1: Maintain and improve As data analysis is common place in life sciences, we need to establish scalable way to develop and share analysis workflow and train researcher to make use of them. The latter entail an end-to-end approach from access to data over selection and proper usage of the appropriate workflow and deploying this on available (cloud) resources. As the ELIXIR Communities bring together domain expert This Strategic Implementation study around Container Orchestration aim to coordinate the ELIXIR Platforms (Compute & Tools) expertise within the Nodes, related project and resource toestablish ELIXIR-wide standards, protocol and process for the orchestration of containerised application provided by ELIXIR Communities. The study will be approached in 4 workpackages: WP1) Leveraging This Metabolomics Community-led study focus on the standardization of fluxomics workflows. The study is led by ELIXIR Greece and ELIXIR Spain and supported by EMBL-EBI and 11 other national ELIXIR Nodes, among whichELIXIR Belgium (Bart Ghesquire). The study aim at 1) establishing standard for isotopic labelling data deposition, a major fluxomics input, and accordingly extending Recent progress in sequencing technology ha produced several large scale data set for crops. The insight gained by this data have been published in high profile scientific articles, but the underlying raw genotype data and the associated sample and population metadata have not been routinely submitted to appropriate archives. The aim of this implementation study is to provide this wealth of This grant aim at collaboration between a number of research infrastructure in Flanders. The ESFRIs in scope are LifeWatch, DiSSCo and ICOS (Environment cluster), and ELIXIR, AnaEE, Euro-BioImaging, EMBRC and Instruct (Health and Food cluster). The project is led by VIB (ELIXIR) and VLIZ (LifeWatch). Goal of the study is to survey the Flemish life-sciences research landscape to find EXCELERATE help ELIXIR to coordinate and extend national and international data resource and ensure the delivery of world-leading life-science data services. It support a pan-European training programme, anchored in national infrastructures, to increase bioinformatics capacity and competency. Coordinated by the ELIXIR Hub, it involves 46 partner from 17 countries. ELIXIR Belgium is involved With this project, funded by the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO) and the Department of Economy, Science and Innovation of the Flemish government (EWI), we aim to expand the activity of the Belgian ELIXIR node. The current ELIXIR Belgium node service will be further developed to integrate them better into the ELIXIR network and allow compatibility with cloud based technologies. New This grant, provided by the Department of Economy, Science and Innovation of the Flemish government (EWI), ha the goal to start building the Belgian ELIXIR node. This will be achieved by: 1) the establishment of the collaboration agreement between the ELIXIR Belgium lead institute (VIB) and the Belgian partners, and the ELIXIR collaboration agreement with the ELIXIR Hub, 2) the development of Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 11/18/2021 - 13:51 Training 18 July 2016 This workshop (18 July 2016) is organised by the ULB Machine Learning Group andaims to present the current and future perspective of former and current ULB MLG researcher in data science and bioinformatics.More information. 7-8 November 2016 This two-day workshop (7-8 November 2016) will get researcher more familiar with genomics data.The focus is on Linux, command line tool and visualisation in R.The workshop is aimed at researcher in the life science at all career stage and is designed for learner with little to no prior knowledge of Linux and command line tools, programming in R or biological network in Cytoscape.More 14-17 November 2016 This workshop and conference (14-17 November 2016) is organised by the Interuniversity Institute of Bioinformatics in Brussels - (IB) and Genome Diagnostics Nijmegen. 6-8 December 2016 This two-day hands-on training (6-7 December 2016) is organised by Biopark Formation and the Interuniversity Institute of Bioinformatics in Brussels - (IB). 30-1 May/Jun 2017 This three-day workshop (30 May - 1 June 2017) will showcase the potential ofFAIR datain the context of plant research and will host a hackathon to make the interoperability platform within the plant domain (BrAPI) FAIR reusing the general acceptedMIAPPEstandards and assessing data validation withISA-TOOLS. Organised by ELIXIR Belgium and ELIXIR The Netherlands. 11-13 September 2017 Three day training (11-13 September 2017) for life scientists. Aims to introduce the concept a well a hands-on skill to the data mining and machine learning technique that are able to analyse biomedical data. Target audience: doctoral student and postdoctoral researcher in life sciences. Number of places: limited to 30; for half of the places, priority is given to UAntwerpen PhD 14-15 September 2017 Using PLAZA to get more out of your plant omics data This two-day workshop (14-15 September 2017) will introduce the basic concept of comparative and functional -omics data analysis in plant through lecture and practical hands-on sessions. Both plant biologist and geneticist with an interest in bioinformatics, data analysis, and comparative & regulatory genomics should attend this 5-6 October 2017 Two-day data processing course (5-6 October 2017). This course start with an introduction to the language, it simple datatypes and control structures, moving on to it more complex data structures, and classes. The emphasis is on how to use Python to solve real world problem in the domain of data transformation relevant to scientific computing. Subjects such a regular expressions, various 23 January 2018 This short course Quick introduction to RStudio (23 January 2018) aim at introducing the basic feature in RStudio to get started with R. It will follow-up with a workshop in data manipulation using tidyverse. The course is open to PhD students, researcher and industry staff in life-sciences; no prior programming knowledge is needed. The trainer for this course is Paula Andrea, ELIXIR 19 February 2018 Short hands-on workshop (19 February 2018) aimed at people who wish to start learning R from scratch. No previous experience with R or other programming language is expected. The trainer for this course is Paula Andrea, ELIXIR Belgiums Bioinformatics and Data Skills trainer. The workshop is organised by ELIXIR Belgium together with VUB. More information and registration on thislink. 21 February 2018 Tidyverse is a collection of R-packages used for data manipulation, exploration and visualisation. This half-day course Introduction to tidyverse (21 February 2018) aim at introducing the tidyverse package in order to increase productivity of data handling. The course is open to PhD students, researcher and industry staff in life-sciences. A basic knowledge of the Rprogramming 5 March 2018 Tidyverse is a collection of R-packages used for data manipulation, exploration and visualisation. This half-day course Introduction to tidyverse (5 March 2018) aim at introducing the tidyverse package in order to increase productivity of data handling. The course is open to PhD students, researcher and industry staff in life-sciences. A basic knowledge of the R programming language 7 March 2018 Tidyverse is a collection of R-packages used for data manipulation, exploration and visualisation. This half-day course Introduction to tidyverse (7 March 2018) aim at introducing the tidyverse package in order to increase productivity of data handling. The course is open to PhD students, researcher and industry staff in life-sciences. A basic knowledge of the R programming language 13 March 2018 Tidyverse is a collection of R-packages used for data manipulation, exploration and visualisation. This half-day course Introduction to tidyverse (13 March 2018) aim at introducing the tidyverse package in order to increase productivity of data handling. The course is open to PhD students, researcher and industry staff in life-sciences. A basic knowledge of the R programming language 24 April 2018 This short workshop get you started with Git from zero and is intended for life scientist who have an existing project with code (in any language) or text file that need track of changes. This workshop is organised by ELIXIR Belgium; the trainer is Paula Andrea Martinez. More information and registration on thislink. 12-13 June 2018 Workshops on the fundamental data skill for data-driven research. This workshop is aimed at researcher and graduate student who want to be introduced to the following topics: R for reproducible analysis, introduction to database and data organisation using spreadsheets. If you have a bit of exposure to R, this workshop is for you, we will use package from tidyverse like ggplot2 and ddplyr 15 June 2018 This training is organised in the framework of the ELIXIR Implementation study Using cloud and VMs for bioinformatics training. This training session will provide the basic of protein structure determination and how this information is stored in databases. We will explore and search in online database containing protein structure information. With the aid of theYasara Viewprogram, we 25 June 2018 This short workshop get you started with Git from zero and is intended for life scientist who have an existing project with code (in any language) or text file that need track of changes. This workshop is organised by ELIXIR Belgium; the trainer is Paula Andrea Martinez. More information and registration on thislink. 26 June 2018 Galaxy is an open software framework that enables researcher without informatics expertise to perform computational biology analysis through the web. This training aim to familiarise you with the Galaxy user interface. It will teach you how to perform basic task such a importing data, running tools, working with histories, creating workflows, and sharing your work. The course is aimed at 20-21 August 2018 Two-day workshop for individual involved in teaching and training in bioinformatics and related fields. The workshop cover learning principle and how they apply to training, training technique that can be used to enhance the learner engagement and participation, assessment and feedback in training, course and material design. This ELIXIR Train the Trainer workshop is organised by ELIXIR 26-31 August 2018 The Summer School is an unmissable learning opportunity for all life scientist analysing transcriptomics data. The aim of the course is to keep up with recent development in transcriptome data analysis and bring own data along to analyse during the course under the supervision of expert trainers. This will provide the ultimate hands-on experience in Next Generation Sequencing data processing 1-6 Oct/May 2018 This course is currently only offered in Dutch Deze navormingscyclus is gericht op medewerkers die werkzaam zijn in de medische moleculaire diagnostiek en wordt georganiseerd door AZ Sint-Jan campus Brugge, UZ Gent en Hogeschool West-Vlaanderen (Howest) campus Brugge. Het doel van deze opleiding is om meer inzicht te verwerven in de bio-informatica processen die toegepast worden in de 10 October 2018 One-day ELIXIR course on public proteomics data reprocessing and the Tabloid Proteome. Tabloid Proteome is a database of protein association network generated using publically available mass spectrometry based experiment in PRIDE. These association represent a broad scala of biological association between pair of protein that go well beyond mere binary protein interactions. Topics: 24-25 October 2018 Two-day workshop (24-25 October 2018) on good development practice that encourage efficient and reproducible research computing. This workshop is aimed at researcher in life -sciences who need to analyse data, even if not full time. The target participant ha the need to read and use Python scripts, the interest to understand better how the code work and the will to pursue efficiency. 6 November 2018 This one-day workshop will introduce you to the Galaxy user interface using NGS data. You will learn how to import data, run tools, work with histories, and create workflows. After this short course, you will be able to perform computational biology analysis through the web. This workshop is organised by ELIXIR Belgium; the trainer for the workshop is Paula Andrea Martinez.Click here for 13-14 May 2019 This Data Carpentry Workshop, with a special focus on sequence handling for variant calling using the cloud resources, will introduce you to Genomic concept and scripting. For those unfamiliar with the concept, Data Carpentry aim at systematically delivering workshop on the fundamental data skill needed to conduct research. The instructor are Mateusz Kuzak, Toby Hodges and Christof De Bo 15 May 2019 The 4 Open Software Recommendations are designed around Open Science values, and provide practical suggestion that contribute to making research software and it source code more discoverable, reusable and transparent. These recommendation recognise that not everyone can or want to make their software open from day one, but encourage to learn from the recommendation and adapt them a needed 20-21 May 2019 The goal of this two-days workshop is to initiate wet-lab scientist to reproducible data analysis with R. The Data organisation in spreadsheet section will focus on tabular data structure and management. We will then introduce OpenRefine and how it can be used for initial data exploration and cleaning. The biggest part of the workshop will focus on R. We will start with a general 10 September 2019 In this workshop, we address how to predict feature of protein from their sequence only, using Python script to access APIs of web service available online. We will introduce single-sequence based prediction of biophysical characteristic of protein (e.g. DynaMine for backbone dynamics), method that use multiple sequence alignment (e.g. I-TASSER), and method that determine the 8 October 2019 This practical aim to familiarizeyou with the Galaxy user interface & execute a complete analysis of RNA-seq data. It will teach you how to perform basic task such a importing data, running tools, working with histories, creating workflows, and sharing your work. In this tutorial, we will introduce you to bare basic of Galaxy: Getting data from external database such a UCSC 21-22 October 2019 This two-day workshop (21-22October 2019) will introduce the basic concept of comparative and functional -omics data analysis in plant through lecture and practical hands-on sessions. Plant biologist and geneticist with an interest in bioinformatics anddata analysis are encouraged to attend this training. After this workshop, you will have a good understanding of the organization of 7 November 2019 This half-day workshopwill take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. This course is open to everyone for free, organized by ELIXIR Belgium.More info. 9-10 January 2020 During this 2-day course, you will - with the help of plenty hands-on exercise - get introduced into the different type of variable in python, the peculiarity of python and good programming habits. This course will provide you an ideal stepping stone for further developing programming skill in Python.More info. Course organized by VIB Bioinformatics core and ELIXIR Belgium. 6 March 2020 This practical aim to familiarizeyou with the Galaxy user interface & execute a complete analysis of RNA-seq data. It will teach you how to perform basic task such a importing data, running tools, working with histories, creating workflows, and sharing your work.More info and registration. Workshop organized by ELIXIR Belgium and the VIB Bioinformatics Core. 30-31 March 2020 This course is organised over two full day (30-31 March 2020). With the help of plenty hands-on exercises, you will get introduced into the different type of variable in python, the peculiarity of python and good programming habits. This course will provide you an ideal stepping stone for further developing programming skill in Python.More info and registration. Organized by ELIXIR 19 June 2020 This half-day workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers.More info and registration. Workshop organized by ELIXIR Belgium and the VIB Bioinformatics Core. 22 June 2020 This course is organised over two full day (22 and 26 June 2020). With the help of plenty hands-on exercises, you will get introduced into the different type of variable in python, the peculiarity of python and good programming habits. This course will provide you an ideal stepping stone for further developing programming skill in Python.More info and registration. Organized by 16 September 2020 This 1-day course aim to introduce how to use the Galaxy platform using variant discovery a a use-case. The course is organised in the context of the Connecting ESFRIs project. Apart from the offered training, phylogenetic analysis tool are made available in Galaxy. Although initially set-up for Botanical Garden researchers, participant from other research institute are welcome to attend. 21-22 September 2020 This course is organised over two full day (21 and 22 September 2020). By mean of hands-on exercises, you will learn to fetch biological data and sequencing file from online databases, and be able to parse and analyse this data. There will be time to highlight specific request oftopics from participants. Organized by ELIXIR Belgium and the VIB Bioinformatics Core. More information 20 October 2020 During this ReproHack the first one organised in Belgium participant will attempt to reproduce published research from a list of proposed paper with available code and data. The hackathon stimulates to start working with other people's code and data, and make your own data analysis reproducible. Participants will largely work together and learn from each other.More information and 26-27 October 2020 This is two-day course will give you an insight in Docker & Singularity containers, and the Nextflow analysis pipeline. Containers allow you to easily install bioinformatics software, maintain multiple version of the same software and combine tool into powerful analysis pipelines. This allows you to perform data analysis without conflicting package dependencies. With Nextflow, you can write 9-10 November 2020 This two-day course will help researcher to develop their knowledge and practical skill in handling and managing their research data. The participant will be guided through the key aspect on how to document, store and safeguard research data. Planning and implementing good data management in research project in accordance to current best practice will also be addressed.More information. 13 November 2020 On request of and in collaboration withJanssen Pharmaceutica, ELIXIR Belgium and the VIB Bioinformatics core organized a workshop series on Docker, Singularity and Nextflow. In three afternoon session (13/11, 20/11, 4/12 2020), topic a version control, software container and workflow pipeline tool were tackled. Participants of Janssen Pharmaceutica learned about containerization of 16-30 November 2020 This course is organised over three full day (16, 23, 30 November 2020). With the help of plenty hands-on exercises, you will get introduced into the different type of variable in python, the peculiarity of python and good programming habits. This course will provide you an ideal stepping stone for further developing programming skill in Python. Organised by ELIXIR Belgium and the VIB 3 December 2020 Galaxy enables researcher without bioinformatics expertise to perform computational analysis through the web. This hands-on workshop aim to familiarize you with the Galaxy user interface & execute (label-free) proteomics data-analysis. The first part of this hands-on workshop will introduce the participant to the Galaxy platform. Basic task such a importing data, running tools, working 10 December 2020 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. This course, organised by ELIXIR Belgium, is open to everyone for free. More info and registration. 8-22 January 2021 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', Hands-on introduction to NGS variant analysis', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the 11 January 2021 The Snakemake workflow management system is a tool to create reproducible and scalable data analyses. Workflows are described via a human readable, Python based language. They can be seamlessly scaled to server, cluster, grid and cloud environments, without the need to modify the workflow definition. Finally, Snakemake workflow can entail a description of required software, which will be 19-2 Jan/Feb 2021 This course gently introduces programming to new programmers. There are plenty of opportunity to apply and practice what you learn, and ask question in a safe place. Furthermore, surprise yourself by building a substantial project over the 3 course weeks. We use the popular Python programming language to prepare you for real-world research application of what you learn. Objectives 5-6 February 2021 This course consists of a live session on counting and differential expression analysis in R and a Q&A session to answer all the question that arise when trying the analysis on your own data. The live session will demonstrate R tool to generate count file like featureCounts, and summarizeOverlaps are demonstrated, a well a how count file from HTSeq-Count, FeatureCounts, Salmon or 25-4 Feb/Mar 2021 This course is organized over two full days. We will start with a brief recap of the basic of Python, followed by exploring several library for data manipulation and visualization. With the help of plenty of hands-on exercises, you will learn to fetch biological data and sequencing file from online databases, and be able to parse and analyze this data. There will be time to highlight 19-2 Mar/Apr 2021 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', Hands-on introduction to NGS variant analysis', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the 29-1 Mar/Apr 2021 The ELIXIR Train the Trainer programme aim to build a network of trainer to allow them to benefit from reciprocal support and discussion. ELIXIR TtT course aim to give new instructor tool and tip for providing an enriching learning experience to trainees, irrespective of topic, and to include best-practice guidance on course and training material development. A complete list of topic 11 May 2021 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Objectives To get you started with Git from zero, we'll work with GitHub (Desktop) and have a look into git on a command-line level. Introduction, set 20-27 May 2021 This two-day course (20 and 27 May 2021) will give you an insight in Docker & Singularity containers, and the Nextflow analysis pipeline. The first day is dedicated to container (Docker & Singularity) which are great tool for code portability and reproducibility of your analysis. You will learn how to use container and how to build a container from scratch, share it with others 21-4 May/Jun 2021 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', Hands-on introduction to NGS variant analysis', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the 25 May 2021 Metatranscriptomics analysis examines how the microbiome responds to the environment by studying the taxonomic composition and functional analysis of gene expressed by the microbiome, using microbial community RNASeq data and subsequent metatranscriptomics workflows. This workshop will introduce researcher to the basic concept and tool from the ASaiM-MT workflow. ASaiM-MT provides a curated 11-18 June 2021 This course consists of a live session on counting and differential expression analysis in R and a Q&A session to answer all the question that arise when trying the analysis on your own data. The live session will demonstrate R tool to generate count file like featureCounts, and summarizeOverlaps are demonstrated, a well a how count file from HTSeq-Count, FeatureCounts, Salmon or 14-16 June 2021 This training will start with the presentation of a 16S pipeline in a linux environment, using a minimal amount of linux commands. This will enable the preprocessing of the data going from raw read to taxonomic table and phylogenetic trees. The second part of the training will give an overview of numerical ecology and take part entirely in R. Objectives The main objective is to 1-5 Jul/Aug 2021 In this course, realistic research case form the starting point for which we will try to find practical solutions. We will tackle research question by designing tailor-made factorial experiment within the budget and lab constraints. Power analysis will be key to achieve this goal. Finally, we will analyse the expected output in a statistical sound manner, interpret the result and propose 27-10 Aug/Sep 2021 This course gently introduces programming to new programmers. There are plenty of opportunity to apply and practice what you learn, and ask question in a safe place. Furthermore, surprise yourself by building a substantial project over the 3 course weeks. We use the popular Python programming language to prepare you for real-world research application of what you learn. Objectives 30-7 Sep/Oct 2021 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', Hands-on introduction to NGS variant analysis', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the 25-26 October 2021 This two-day workshop will introduce the basic concept of comparative and functional -omics data analysis in plant through lecture and practical hands-on sessions. Plant biologist and geneticist with an interest in bioinformatics and data analysis are encouraged to attend this training. After this workshop, you will have a good understanding of the organization of plant genomes, the 15 November 2021 This workshop will provide new knowledge and skill related to impact evaluation through hands-on learning and knowledge-exchange. Learning will be facilitated by impact evaluator from the European Future Innovation System Centre. Objectives Gain new knowledge and skill related to impact evaluation, through hands-on learning, complemented with knowledge-exchange. Refine the case study 18-25 November 2021 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', Hands-on introduction to NGS variant analysis', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the 2 December 2021 This workshop will show you the possibility and the pitfall of transferring software tool to the cloud using real-life examples. Four scientist will testify about their experience with implementing the tool that wa developed in their lab in the cloud.We will end the workshop with a panel discussion. More info and registration. Talks: Living on the edge: reproducible RNA-seq data 9-16 December 2021 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', Hands-on introduction to NGS variant analysis', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the 22-23 December 2021 10 January 2022 The course will give an introduction to container (Docker & Singularity) which are great component to achieveportability and reproducibility of your analysis. You will learn how to use container and how to build a container from scratch, share it with others and how to re-use and modify existing containers. After an extensive explanation on Docker containers, Singularity will be 14-28 January 2022 This course introduces Python programming and is organized online over three full day (14, 21, 28 January). With the help of plenty of hands-on exercises, you will get introduced to the different type of variable in Python, the peculiarity of Python and good programming habits. This course will provide you with an ideal stepping stone for further developing programming skill in Python. 17 January 2022 You will learn how to use Nextflow for building scalable and reproducible bioinformatics pipeline and running them on a personal computer, cluster and cloud. Starting from the basic concept we will build our own simple pipeline and add new feature with every step, all in the new DSL2 language. Objectives Understand Nextflow's basic concepts: channels, processes, modules, workflows, etc 4-6 February 2022 The course consists of two separate session on the 4th and 11th of February, feautring a youtube sessionon counting and differential expression analysis in R and an online Q&A session to solve the exercise and answer all the question that arise when trying the analysis on your own data. Objectives The course will show: Tools to generate countfiles like featureCounts, and htseq count 10 March 2022 Thisis a repeat webinar for the fully subscribedGetting started with impact evaluationtraining event. This time, there isno limit to the number of attendees, and anyone interested in impact (of research infrastructures) is welcome to join. You do not need to be part of ELIXIR. The event will be shorter (2.5h) and le hands-on (no group work using MURAL) than the original event, yet still 31 March 2022 The webinar series will feature speaker actively engaged in developing novel application of Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning technique to advance experimental and computational structural biology and other key research area in biology. Each presentation will be followed by a 20 minute Q/A session. The goal of these series is to illustrate and critically appraise the advance made 4-18 May 2022 This course gently introduces programming to new programmers. There are plenty of opportunuties to apply and practice what you learn, and ask question in a safe place. Furthermore, surprise yourself by building a substantial project over the 3 course weeks. We use the popular Python programming language to prepare you for real-world research application of what you learn. Objectives After 15 June 2022 In this workshop you will be introduced to the Galaxy platform and learn how to perform phylogenetic analysis using it tool and workflows. Phylogenetic analysis using sequence data involves many step using various bioinformatic tools. This translates into a steep and long learning curve for researcher with little bioinformatic knowledge since the majority of these tool run on the command 17 June 2022 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and 3-17 August 2022 This course introduces Python programming and is organised online over three full day (3, 10, 17 August). With the help of plenty hands-on exercises, you will get introduced into the different type of variable in Python, the peculiarity of Python and good programming habits. This course will provide you an ideal stepping stone for further developing programming skill in Python. More info 13 September 2022 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and 15-22 September 2022 This training is an introduction to 'Bulk RNA-Seq analysis for differential expression', and 'Hands on introduction to ChIP-Seq analysis'. If you want to follow one of these training and you have no experience with NGS data you should follow this introduction first. Objectives This training is an introduction to a series of training on the analysis of Next Generation Sequencing data. 27 September 2022 Free hands-on introduction to research data management and publication LifeWatchandELIXIR Belgiuminvite you to a hands-on workshop to manage and publish research data. The workshop is organized in the context of theEmpowering Biodiversity Research conferenceand will cover data management plans, data cleaning and GitHub. If this is jargon you always wanted to know about (but were 29-4 Sep/Oct 2022 This 2-day course consists of e-learning on counting, showing tool to generate count file (e.g. FeatureCounts, HTSeq Count) and how these count file are used to identify differentially expressed genes. The course also offer two face-to-face session on differential expression analysis in R and all the question that arise when analysing your own data. Requirements: Knowledge of NGS 24-26 October 2022 The course will give an introduction to container (Docker & Singularity) which are great component to achieveportability and reproducibility of your analysis. You will learn how to use container and how to build a container from scratch, share it with others and how to re-use and modify existing containers. After an extensive explanation on Docker containers, Singularity will be 3-17 November 2022 This course gently introduces programming to new programmers. There are plenty of opportunuties to apply and practice what you learn, and ask question in a safe place. Furthermore, surprise yourself by building a substantial project over the 3 course weeks. We use the popular Python programming language to prepare you for real-world research application of what you learn. Objectives 17-18 November 2022 You will learn how to use Nextflow for building scalable and reproducible bioinformatics pipeline and running them on a personal computer, cluster and cloud. Starting from the basic concept we will build our own simple pipeline and add new feature with every step, all in the new DSL2 language. Objectives Understand Nextflow's basic concepts: channels, processes, modules, workflows, etc 21-23 November 2022 This training will start with the presentation of a16S pipelinein a Galaxy environment. This will enable the preprocessing of the data going from raw read to taxonomic table and phylogenetic trees. The 2nd part of the training will give an overview of numerical ecology and take part entirely inR(meaning that knowledge of R is mandatory). Objectives Processing and statistical 12-13 December 2022 In this course you will learn how to use Research Data Management (RDM) in order to improve the writing of your publication and potentially increase it impact. Starting from basic concept together with hands-on activity and discussions, during two day you will learn how to standardise, document and submit your data in a repository and how all of this will help you to underpin your 4-18 January 2023 This combined 3-day course gently introduces programming to new programmers. There are plenty of opportunity to apply and practice what you learn, and ask question in a safe place. Furthermore, surprise yourself by building a substantial project over the 3 course weeks. We use the popular Python programming language to prepare you for real-world research application of what you learn. 8 February 2023 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and it 13-14 March 2023 The course will give an introduction to container (Docker & Singularity) which are great component to achieve portability and reproducibility of your analysis. You will learn how to use container and how to build a container from scratch, share it with others and how to re-use and modify existing containers. After an extensive explanation on Docker containers, Singularity will be 30-31 March 2023 You will learn how to use Nextflow for building scalable and reproducible bioinformatics pipeline and running them on a personal computer, cluster and cloud. Starting from the basic concept we will build our own simple pipeline and add new feature with every step, all in the new DSL2 language. Objectives Understand Nextflow's basic concepts: channels, processes, modules, workflows, etc 17-21 April 2023 The Galaxy Admin workshop will cover introductory and advanced topic you need to know to set up your own production, high-performance and multi-user Galaxy instance. Sessions will be intensive and hands-on, and taught by experienced instructor from the Galaxy Community. Participants will learn how to install, configure, customise, and extend their own Galaxy servers. Topics include tool 2 May 2023 The TCR analysis workshop is designed for researcher seeking to enhance their T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire analysis skills. The 3-hour workshop will offer an intensive hands-on training on state-of-the-art TCR repertoire analysis tools. Participants will be guided through the TCR interpretation process, from annotated immunosequencing data to detailed insights, including exploratory 16-17 May 2023 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and it 2-9 June 2023 The course consists of introductory online material (e-learning) on counting and two face-to-face session on differential expression analysis in R and all the question that arise when trying the analysis on your own data. The course will show: Tools to generate countfiles like featureCounts, and htseq count are demonstrated Count file from HTSeq-Count, FeatureCounts, Salmon or Kallisto 14-15 June 2023 In this course, you will be guided how to use the different facet of research data management in order to improve the writing of your publication and potentially increase it impact. Starting from basic concept together with hands-on activity and discussions, you will learn how to standardise, document and submit your data in a repository and how this will help you to underpin your 11-12 September 2023 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and it 12-13 October 2023 The course will give an introduction to container (Docker & Singularity) which are great component to achieve portability and reproducibility of your analysis. You will learn how to use container and how to build a container from scratch, share it with others and how to re-use and modify existing containers. After an extensive explanation on Docker containers, Singularity will be 20 October 2023 This session is dedicated to introducing the use of TeSS (Training eSupport System), a platform to promote training events, and contribute to a growing catalogue of materials. The training is intended for anyone who organises event (courses, seminars, hackathons, etc.) and creates material and who want to contribute to the platform and improve the impact of their training materials. 13-14 November 2023 In this course, you will be guided how to use the different facet of research data management in order to improve the writing of your publication and potentially increase it impact. Starting from basic concept together with hands-on activity and discussions, you will learn how to standardise, document and submit your data in a repository and how this will help you to underpin your 16-17 November 2023 You will learn how to use Nextflow for building scalable and reproducible bioinformatics pipeline and running them on a personal computer, cluster and cloud. Starting from the basic concept we will build our own simple pipeline and add new feature with every step, all in the new DSL2 language. Objectives Understand Nextflow's basic concepts: channels, processes, modules, workflows, etc 21-28 November 2023 This course will show tool to generate countfiles like featureCounts, and htseq count. Count file from HTSeq-Count, FeatureCounts, Salmon or Kallisto areused to identify differentially expressed genes.On the second day, participant can analyze their own count files. Issues are solved and question are answered by expert from the VIB Nucleomics Core. Software demonstrated Counting 4 December 2023 This introduction to functional analysis will elucidate the biology behind gene and reveal the significance of your data. Online tool to annotate and analyse human and plant datasets, such a Gene Ontology Enrichment Analysis and Pathways Analysis, will be used to unravel the meaning of your gene set. Register here >> Organised by VIB Technology Training and ELIXIR Belgium 26-27 February 2024 This foundational course provides a comprehensive journey through the various stage of machine learning model development and deployment. Attendees will learn how to transition model from academic research to practical applications. They will work how important is to have clear idea about what they will find in real scenario when they have to face to the task to deploy a machine learning model 29-1 Feb/Mar 2024 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and it 6 March 2024 A common mechanism for protein regulation is through post-translational modification (PTMs), which can affect the characteristic of proteins. Most available database on protein PTMs collect and integrate PTM information from various resources, but provide very little or no information on the reliability of the identified PTM sites, experimental condition, pathological status and their 15 March 2024 This introduction to functional analysis will elucidate the biology behind gene and reveal the significance of your data. Online tool to annotate and analyse human and plant datasets, such a Gene Ontology Enrichment Analysis and Pathways Analysis, will be used to unravel the meaning of your gene set. Register here>> Organised by VIB Technology Training and ELIXIR Belgium 15-16 April 2024 The course will give an introduction to container (Docker & Singularity) which are great component to achieve portability and reproducibility of your analysis. You will learn how to use container and how to build a container from scratch, share it with others and how to re-use and modify existing containers. After an extensive explanation on Docker containers, Singularity will be 22 April 2024 There is great potential in large-scale collaborative effort using health data. However, it remains challenging to kick-start these type of initiatives. This hands-on and interactive workshop will address the following key question and challenge for initiating a project: Where to start? What are thekey step to go from questionto answer? What are the challenge that arise (in each step) 22-23 April 2024 This two-day workshop will introduce the basic concept of comparative and functional -omics data analysis in plant through lecture and practical hands-on sessions. Plant biologist and geneticist with an interest in bioinformatics anddata analysis are encouraged to attend this training. After this workshop, you will have a good understanding of the organisation of plant genome (gene 8-12 May/Jun 2024 This is aself-pacedcourse that gently introduces programming to new programmer over a6 week period. There are plenty of opportunity topracticewhat you learn andask questionsin a safe place. Furthermore,surprise yourselfby building a substantial project. Each week there are some optional online interactivelab session forQ&Aandproblem solving. The5 lab sessionswill be 16-17 May 2024 This workshop will take you through the basic use of Git and GitHub. Git is a free and open source distributed version-control system designed to maintain code, track changes, recover old version and collaborate with other developers. Get you started with Git from zero (note that if you already use Git, this workshop will be too basic for you). We'll explore Git on the command-line and it 23-24 May 2024 You will learn how to use Nextflow for building scalable and reproducible bioinformatics pipeline and running them on a personal computer, cluster and cloud. Starting from the basic concept we will build our own simple pipeline and add new feature with every step, all in the new DSL2 language. Objectives: Understand Nextflow's basic concepts: channels, processes, modules, workflows, etc Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 11/18/2021 - 13:54 Events 28 September 2016 This meeting brought together several member of university and research centre to kick-off the activity of the Training platform of the Belgian ELIXIR node. The objective of this meeting The Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO), Louizalaan 231, Brussels 9 February 2017 The morning session of the event covered adata management workshopspecifically for researchers. Experts in data handling introduced the concept of FAIR data, illustrated data VIB-UGent Center for Plant Systems Biology, Technologiepark 71, Zwijnaarde 29 September 2017 In September 2017, Flanders and Walloon Metabolomics group organized the firstBelgian Metabolomics Day. The purpose of this meeting wasto get to know each others research Instituut voor Landbouw-, Visserij- en Voedingsonderzoek (ILVO) Caritasstraat 39, Melle 9-10 October 2017 Microbiome, Food and Nutrition datasets have expanded rapidly in recent years, following advance in DNA sequencing and the rise of shotgun metagenomics and metabolomics. To help company access KVS - Brussels City Theatre, Lakensestraat 146, Brussels 18 June 2018 Apart from our academic partners,Belgian research institute active in life-sciencesare also important stakeholder in ELIXIR Belgium. Members of these organisation generate VIB-UGent Center for Plant Systems Biology, Technologiepark 71, Zwijnaarde 28-30 January 2019 ELIXIR Belgium is hosting the ELIXIR Tools Platform F2F meeting in Ghent. The meeting cover the general Tools Platform member discussion for the new ELIXIR Scientific Program, the collaboration VIB-UGent Center for Plant Systems Biology, Technologiepark 71, Zwijnaarde 5 June 2019 Research Infrastructures (such a ESFRIs) are characterized by the very significant data volume they generate and handle but the research data landscape is still fragmented. The European Open Herman Teirlinck Builling 01.43 Toots Thielemans, Havenlaan 88, Brussels 11-12 June 2019 FAIRDOMhas been identified a a promising platform to capture data and metadata, and is also gaining considerable traction across ELIXIR Europe. By deploying VIB-UGent Center for Plant Systems Biology, Technologiepark 71, Zwijnaarde 4-5 September 2019 The Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) act a a consultative body to provide recommendation to the Belgian ELIXIR Node on technical, organizational and strategic matters. During this first meeting VIB-UGent Center for Plant Systems Biology, Technologiepark 71, Zwijnaarde 16 September 2019 After the successful launch of ELIXIR Belgium in 2017, the first ELIXIR Belgium All Hands Meeting wa held on16 September 2019 in Brussels. The aim of the event wa to bring together all KVAB - Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts Palace of the Academies, Rue Ducale 1, Brussels 12 December 2019 This community event gathered all relevant player in the field of Research Data Management in Belgium. Park Inn Brussels Midi, Place Marcel Broodthaers 3, Brussels 28 February 2020 Open Science and Open Data initiative are currently high on many agenda (e.g. EOSC, FOSB). The implementation of these initiative rely heavily on the infrastructure and service present. As Flanders Marine Institute InnovOcean site Wandelaarkaai 7 (entrance: warehouse 48), Ostend 3 December 2020 This one-day online event is dedicated to research software and research software developer and aim to improve software used for scientific research and share experiences. The day is Online 20-24 Jan/Feb 2021 In a series of six webinar sessions, expert from ELIXIR and the global Galaxy community from the US, Australia and Europe will demonstrate how open access and open science are fundamental for Online 10-12 March 2021 The innovation and SME event for the Agritech sector took place from 10 to 12 March 2021. Participants were immersed in a world of data-driven innovation, with a mix of high-level keynote Online 17-18 June 2021 OnJune 17-18 2021, theHelis Academy, withData Analysis and Data Stewardshipas one Online 28-10 Jun/Jul 2021 The 2021 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2021) will be held online from 28 June to 10 July 2021. Having the event in a virtual format present many challenges, but also offer opportunity for Online 1 December 2021 The global COVID-19 pandemic ha demonstrated the need for rapid and open data exchange to accelerate scientific research. To address this, the European Commission and EMBL's European 18 May 2022 We are pleased to invite you for the third ELIXIR Belgium meeting which take place on 18 May 2022 in Brussels. More than ever we aim to bring together people, Koninklijke Vlaamse Schouwburg, Arduinkaai 7, Brussels 24-25 May 2022 This conference will allow you to explore and discus the opportunity and strength related to biodiversity informatics and open data &amp; open science, to learn about Belgian research project Royal Museum for Central Africa, Leuvensesteenweg 13, Tervuren 31 May 2022 The objective of this workshop is to present and share existing solution to sensitive data analysis using federated system or secure research environments. Online 27 October 2022 Vrije Universiteit Brussel, ELIXIR Belgium and the Interuniversity Institute for Bioinformatics in Brussels welcome for the first time in Brussels the NSBM Fall Meeting. VUB, Boulevard General Jacques 271, Brussels 13-15 March 2023 A Contentathon with intensive interaction between IDTk editor and contributors. Monasterium PoortAckere, Oude Houtlei 56, Gent 3-4 May 2023 On3 - 4 May 2023, the Antwerp Unit for Data Analysis and Computation in Immunology and Sequencing (AUDACIS) will organize ATCR23: The third Antwerp T-cell receptor (TCR) meeting where Room S.R.231, Antwerp University City Campus, Prinsstraat 13, Antwerp 22-24 May 2023 A Contentathon with intensive interaction between RDMkit editor and contributors. Monasterium PoortAckere, Oude Houtlei 56, Gent 23-24 October 2023 At this year's ELIXIR national meeting, we will showcase the variety of service in our portfolio with scientist illustrating how the service facilitate their Muziekcentrum De Bijloke, Gent 14 March 2024 Discover how Dodona (https://dodona.be/en) can enhance your programming, statistic Online 25-26 March 2024 The Benelux Biodiversity Informatics community and partners, including Elixir Belgium, are pleased to invite you to the Empowering Biodiversity Research III conference, taking place on25 and 26 Naturalis, Leiden, The Netherlands 23 April 2024 The term data space ha gained a lot of traction lately, specifically with the upcoming European Health Data Space legislation. The definition of data space is still under discussion. However, Corda Campus, Hasselt 6 May 2024 Europe is building a quantum ecosystem to leverage the potential of quantum technologies. It is expected that this technology will allow u to do thing that are simply not possible today. The Museum M, Leuven 10-12 June 2024 The ELIXIR All Hands meeting is an annual event that brings togethermembers of the ELIXIR community. The goal of the event is to review ELIXIRs achievement and activity so far, and discus Uppsala, Sweden 1-31 Jul/Dec 2024 Connect with a variety of people in the ELIXIR network at our event and always find someone with the experience or knowledge that you need. Or just be inspired by the topic we present. Keep in touch and we hope to see you soon! Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 01/06/2022 - 12:48 Blogs 12 March 2024 Discover our latest news, events, training, and vacancy in our monthly newsletter. 1 March 2024 The EU-funded EOSC-ENTRUST project launch today, 1 March 2024, with the aim of enhancing European interoperability for sensitive data access and analysis. 2 February 2024 ELIXIR Belgium is pleased to announce participation in ELIXIR-STEERS, a three-year EU funded project launched yesterday with a total budget of 4M. 21 November 2023 A prestigious recognition of his work on ethical standard in the utilisation of human DNA data in science. 11 August 2023 Join u at our national conference - ELIXIR Belgium: Your Data, Our Services, European success 30 March 2023 With the success of our recent FWO International Research Infrastructure proposal for 2023-2026, ELIXIR Belgium is in the process of an expansion! Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation ENA Data Submission Toolbox The assist in submitting raw read and assembled sequence to the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA). The tool feature a single-step submission process, a graphical user interface, tabular-formatted metadata and the possibility to remove human read prior to submission. A Galaxy wrap of the tool allows user with little or no bioinformatic knowledge to do bulk sequencing read submissions. The tool is also packed in a Docker container to ease deployment. Available formats: , Galaxy ENA Upload Tool,. The tool wa developed by ELIXIR Belgium in 2020, further development (e.g. for the submission of consensus sequences) are ongoing. Extensive is available in our RDM Guide, the manuscript can be read . Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation ELIXIR-STEERS ELIXIR-STEERS 1 February 2024 - 31 January 2027 The EU-funded ELIXIR-STEERS project, a three-year initiative with a budget of 4M, is a collaboration between all ELIXIR Nodes, encompassing 36 institute across 23 countries, plus EMBL-EBI. It aim to enhance large-scale, cross-border federated analysis in the life science throughout the European Research Area. ELIXIR-STEERS address the need for good software and workflow management, which is essential for reproducible and efficient analysis of life science data. The mission of the project is to help life science researcher to access national data set and conduct large-scale, cross-border analysis of data from across Europe. The ELIXIR-STEERS project build on the achievement of two previous EU-funded projects: ELIXIR-EXCELERATE (2015-19), which helped establish ELIXIR a a coordinated European life science infrastructure, and ELIXIR-CONVERGE (2020-23), which enhanced data management and stewardship across ELIXIR Nodes. ELIXIR-STEERS consists of 3 objectives: Create a toolkit for robust, reproducible, and green software and workflow Enable cross-border data analysis in the life science by embedding common practice across the whole European Research Area via the ELIXIR Nodes Partner in Europe and internationally for global competitiveness and sustainability ELIXIR Belgium is leading and contributing to . Specifically, WP3 will extend existing infrastructure component to implement the best-practices and indicator for research software and workflow developed in . To ensure adoption of the best practice and aid recognition of the indicators, relevant feature will be integrated in community-adopted and recommended registries. Further dissemination of these practice will be done through the development of a Software Management Planning tool. Read more on the pages. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Unipept is an open source web application designed for metaproteomics data analysis with a focus on interactive data visualisations. Unipept is powered by an index containing all UniProt entries, a tweaked version of the NCBI taxonomy and a custom lowest common ancestor algorithm. This combination enables a blazingly fast biodiversity analysis of large and complex metaproteome samples. Next to these core functions, Unipept also ha a tool for selecting unique peptide for targeted proteomics and for comparing genome based on peptide similarity. Unipept is developed at Ghent University. All published article can be found on this, a on Unipept ha been published in 2018. News and update on Unipept can be found on Twitter: . Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:21 Research Data Management ELIXIR Belgium provides service to facilitate researcher in making data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable by design (). By engaging in discussion to shape standard and gathering best practices, we provide life science professional essential information on research data management. Additionally, we develop tool to assist in putting in practice the recommendation and enable making data FAIR at all phase of the research project. Activities in Research Data Management Flemish Open Science Board We are strongly involved in the development of the Flemish Open Science Board (), an initiative encompassing all research institute in Flanders to help advance Open Science. Members of ELIXIR Belgium contribute to the Flemish Data Architecture plan (originally developed by our Head of Node), the Flemish Research Data Management network (FRDN), and task force on Minimal Flemish Data Management Plan, National portal for research funded by public funding and Training. Data Management Plans We collaborate with Belgian stakeholder to provide guidance on the use and further development of Data Management Plans (DMPs). We focus on unifying the question from different funders and aim towards machine actionable DMPs. Aligning question from various DMP template will simplify the process of completing DMPs for researcher and increase the semantic interoperability among funders templates. Machine actionability will make DMPs more powerful towards planning and reporting, for instance to monitor data storage, metadata collection, data availability and related costs. This work is done in collaboration with the , and (ELIXIR CZ). Services for Research Data Management Best practice and guideline As a partner in the project, we are co-leading the development of which offer a wealth of information on research data management resource and tool to the European community. In a complementary effort, we developed the , which contains information tailored towards researcher in Belgium and their collaborators. (Meta)data management platform is being developed a a converging place in which researcher can easily record metadata and connect it with their data and related tool or services. The platform is geared towards easing the burden of data management by allowing step-by-step and by default compliance with standard and best practices. As part of the development, we exchange knowledge and expertise with other European initiative through the group. Publication of data and workflow During the COVID-19 pandemic, we developed tool to facilitate submission of viral sequence to the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA). These are targeted both towards researcher and clinician a to other ELIXIR Nodes to integrate in their pipeline (in production in Estonia). Combining this with DataHub, we now have a proof of concept to collect metadata in DataHub and submit the data to ENA. We aim to implement similar approach for the major deposition databases. To support reproducible data processing and analysis, we contribute to the development of , a public registry where user can describe, store, share and publish their data analysis pipeline and workflows. The WorkflowHub is developed in the context of the project and in collaboration with the group. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:22 Data Analysis Platforms Galaxy for reproducible data analysis through workflow is an open, web-based platform for data-intensive computational research. It allows to run analysis workflows, facilitates sharing of data and results, and remove the need for user to install tools. ELIXIR Belgium ha developed and maintains which is hosted on the Flemish Supercomputer Centre () resources. It provides life science researcher access to compute resources, tool and data analysis workflows. Specifically for microbial public health applications, wa established. This instance offer tools, pipeline and database for using whole genome sequencing in routine pathogen typing and characterization, and outbreak detection. We are co-developing , a public registry to describe, store, share and publish data analysis pipeline and workflows. WorkflowHub is developed in the context of the project and in collaboration with the Australian BioCommons. Through practical implementation for , the community-driven approach to package research data with it metadata, we enable the exchange of FAIR Digital Objects. Our team strongly collaborates with the and the . Specialised data analysis service The platform for metaproteomics data analysis enables researcher to get insight into the biodiversity and functional composition of complex environmental samples, by using the information present in existing data source such a UniProt. provides a standardised environment to perform automated quality control and reproducible statistical analysis for high-dimensional omics datasets that employ complex design. The service will be expanded to accommodate additional quantitative proteomics and genomics data, and will be integrated in the ELIXIR Tools ecosystem e.g. through linking with Galaxy. EuroScienceGateway ELIXIR Belgium is a partner in , a European project set up to leverage a distributed computing network across European countries, accessible via national web portal (Galaxy), facilitating access to compute and storage infrastructure across Europe a well a to data, tools, workflow and services. We are involved and contributing to the work package on project management, FAIR research, pulsar network and sustainable operating model. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:23 Plant & Biodiversity Belgium ha a long-standing history in plant biotechnology research, elucidating how plant grow and develop under different conditions. Bioinformatics group from UGent have developed tool for annotation of genome () and comparative genomics () allowing researcher to gain further insights. The PLAZA plant genomics hub also emphasis on interoperability and reuse of data and is an ELIXIR Recommended Interoperability Resource () since 2021. With the initiation of large scale biodiversity project to sequence specie across the tree of life (e.g. the), both platform will be valuable to effectively make use of the generated data. Specifically for plant phenotyping data, wa developed. This central web interface and database provides tool for the management of plant imaging robots, and the analysis of image and data. Our team work closely together with the (EMPHASIS) and the . Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:24 Human Data Sensitive data infrastructure 1+Million Genomes and The Genome of Europe Handling of sensitive data is a high priority topic in Europe and Flanders. In 2020 Belgium joined the group of signatory of the EC (1+MG) declaration. 1+MG intends to grant researcher secure, cross-border access to one million genome in the EU by 2022. ELIXIR Belgium lead the 1+MG infrastructure Belgian mirror group (WG5), responsible for the technical component and requirement to ensure interoperability of human omics data while complying with security and privacy regulations. The membership of ELIXIR allows u to tap into the expertise of country ahead in the implementation of such infrastructure. The deployment of 1+MG infrastructure will be tackled in the upcoming (GDI) project - part of EC digital programme. VIB along with Siensano are Belgian participant in the GDI project. The is a 1+MG driver initiative to generate 500M genome from European non-patient cohorts. In Belgium, this objective will be undertaken by the (BGB), a multi-institutional infrastructure project which aim to create a genomic resource of the Belgian population in order to support future genetic and health studies. The ELIXIR team will take the lead in enabling the shared data model and state-of-the-art data encryption process to ensure secure, cloud-based distributed access to the data. Services for human research dataBelgium ha a strong portfolio of human data related bioinformatics services, specifically on interpretation of integrated data to gain insight in human health. UHasselt, KU Leuven and UAntwerpen collaborate closely on developing federated platform for human data. is a federated platform for interpretation of whole genome sequencing data that focus on data security and extensive access control. integrated into WiNGS, provides dynamic annotation and filtering strategies. The enables large-scale collaborative effort of real-world data and is used within the . In the platform for oligogenic analysis, , user can upload genetic patient information and explore the potential oligogenic cause of rare diseases. The platform allows to accelerate immune repertoire research by exploring the human repertoire in cancer, autoimmune disorder and viral infection a COVID-19. Linking with health and clinical data is one of our future focus point which will be facilitated via our involvement in the European Health Data Space (EHDS). Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:24 Functional genomics Genomic resource are already providing enormous insight in human health and the life science in general. Recent advances, especially AlphaFold, now enable the improved transformation of genome into the proteome. This unlocks existing protein-based tool for use in the functional annotation of genomic resources, which will have an enormous impact on our understanding of disease and life processes. As protein are adaptable and complex molecules, further annotation is essential to understand their interplay with the genome. ELIXIR Belgium host leading resource for post-translational modification (, UGent), proteome information (, UGent) and biophysics and structural dynamic (, VUB) of proteins. We aim to build the functional genomics platform, integrating these service and linking them to genomic resources. This will allow scientist to discover variations, mutations, and mistranslation that are not encoded in the genome, post translational modification that have or have not been charted yet, a well a investigate the impact of such variation on the structure and dynamic of proteins. The platform will be connected to core ELIXIR resource (,), and API service to integrate in analysis platform (e.g. Galaxy) will be developed. Close collaboration with the and the Communities ensures interoperability and sustainability. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:25 COVID-19 Tools for Assembly & Submission of SARS-CoV-2 Data During the COVID-19 pandemic, ELIXIR Belgium contributed to the effort in developing and of viral data. We developed tool and guidance to facilitate submission of viral sequence to the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA). We currently maintain a and a to assemble and submit SARS-CoV-2 genome to the ENA. We used these tool to broker the submission of SARS-CoV-2 raw read data from Belgian patient to ENA on behalf of the Institute of Tropical Medicine and the Universite Libre de Bruxelles. Additionally, ELIXIR Estonia integrated the Galaxy submission tool into their submission pipeline and ha used it to submit thousand of raw read datasets to the ENA in the context of the . We are actively involved in setting up using publicly accessible infrastructure and workflows. BY-COVID ELIXIR Belgium is a partner in , a European project set up to mobilise all type of COVID-19 data and to build the infrastructure and know-how needed to deal with the next infectious disease epidemic. ELIXIR Belgium co-leads the work package focusing on data analysis tools. Additionally, we participate in and contribute to the EMBL/EC meeting and a such help to shape the Belgian COVID-19 data efforts. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 12/09/2021 - 12:04 Becoming a Node Service ELIXIR Services The consist of the collective contribution of service of all national Nodes and comprise specialised databases, data resources, software tools, workflows, These are a diverse a the national Nodes and largely reflect the activity of the national bioinformatics communities. Partner institute of ELIXIR Belgium can apply for one or more Node Services upon the call for Node Services organised every two years. All type of bioinformatics resource accelerating research in life-science are eligible (databases, data resources, software tools, workflows, web services,) provided they are open to external users, preferably internationally, but at least at the national level. Commercial resource are not eligible. Benefits. Selected Node Services are added to ELIXIR Belgiums Service Delivery Plan, which identifies and label important resource produced by the Belgian bioinformatics community. Although no direct funding is linked to ELIXIR Belgium Node Services, there are a number of benefit associated with it. The selection procedure includes the evaluation of a service by international expert allowing it further growth. Node Services are published on the ELIXIR Europe and ELIXIR Belgium website which increase the visibility of the service. The Node Service quality label is also a criterion for eligibility in ELIXIR proposal and required to become an , or . A list of the current ELIXIR Belgium Node Services can be found on the . To discover all our service more into detail, you may visit the on this website. Selection process Members of our international evaluate candidate service on scientific focus and quality, quality of service, maturity, sustainability and impact. Two category are distinguished: mature Node Services and emerging Node Services. Established service with multi-annual experience and a strong user-base are classified in the mature Node Services category and are evaluated every other year. Emerging Node Services reflect service of high international importance that have yet not been able to attract a large user-base and are evaluated yearly. Selected Node Services need to be registered in the ELIXIR Tools and Services Registry , the resource or ELIXIRs Training portal (if applicable). Websites of selected Node Services have to mention the term of use of their service and add the ELIXIR Belgium logo. The previous call for Node Services wa held in 2022, the next call is planned for Spring 2024. Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Brochures Download our brochure describing our service here. Graphics ELIXIR Belgium Logo Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Submitted by Yasmine on Thu, 01/11/2024 - 13:42 Contact Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved. Main navigation Privacy on the ELIXIR Belgium website This Privacy Policy explains what personal data is collected by the ELIXIR Belgium website. It tell you why we collect your data, how it is processed, and how we keep it secure. It also give you the contact detail you need if you have any query or request concerning your data. Newsletter We use the MailChimp mailing service to send the newsletter. The data we collect: the sign-up form for the newsletter requires your email address, with optional field for your name and organisation. In addition, MailChimp record which newsletter you opened and which link you clicked. Why we collect the data: to enable u to send emails, to measure the success of the emails, to help u provide report to funders, and to help u improve the newsletter Lawful basis for processing the data: this data is only processed with your explicit consent. The sign-up form asks for this consent. Who ha access to the data: the personal data is only accessible to the ELIXIR Belgium node coordinator and the communication officer who manage the emails. Data transfer: MailChimp is based in the United States and the data is held on server located there. Data retention: We will keep your personal data for a long a you wish to remain on the mailing list. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting u at info@elixir-belgium.org. Third party processors: the mailing list service is run by MailChimp. MailChimp is certified to theand the Swiss-US Privacy Shield, which are designed to protect your data in the U.S.. See also thethat customer in the EU (like the ELIXIR Hub) sign with MailChimp. This outline how your data will be processed by MailChimp. Event registration We use the EventBrite service to manage event registrations. The data we collect: this depends on the event. The event registration form normally asks for your name, email, and affiliation, and may ask for your dietary requirement. Why we collect the data: to enable u to organise the event, and to keep registrant informed about the event. Lawful basis for processing the data: this data is only processed with your explicit consent. The registration form ask for this consent. Who ha access to the data: the personal data is only accessible to the ELIXIR Belgium node coordinator or the communication officer who manage the event. Data transfer: EventBrite is based in the United States and the data may be transferred there. Data retention: we will keep your personal data until notification from you at info@elixir-belgium.org. Third party processors: the registration service is run by EventBrite. EventBrite is certified to theand the Swiss-US Privacy Shield, which are designed to protect your data in the U.S.. See also theand their, which describes EventBrite's compliance to the GDPR. Training registration We use the VIB registration service to manage training registrations. The data we collect: the training registration normally asks for your name, email, and affiliation, and may ask for your dietary requirement. Why we collect the data: to enable u to organise the training, and to keep registrant informed about the event. Lawful basis for processing the data: this data is only processed with your explicit consent. The registration form ask for this consent. Who ha access to the data: the personal data is only accessible to the VIB Training staff who manages the trainings. Data transfer: the personal data will under no circumstance be transferred to third parties, unless you give explicit permission. Data retention: we will keep your personal data until notification from you atinfo@elixir-belgium.org. Your right Under the, you have you have a number of right concerning your data (see thefor an overview of these). You have the right to: Not be subject to decision based solely on an automated processing of data (i.e. without human intervention) without you having your view taken into consideration. Request at reasonable interval and without excessive delay or expense, information about the personal data processed about you. Request information to understand data processing activity when the result of these activity are applied to you. Object at any time to the processing of your personal data unless we can demonstrate that we have legitimate reason to process your personal data. Request free of charge and without excessive delay rectification or erasure of your personal data if we have not been processing it according to our privacy policy. It must be clarified that right 4 and 5 are only available whenever the processing of your personal data is not necessary to: Comply with a legal obligation. Perform a task carried out in the public interest. Exercise authority a a data controller. Archive for purpose in the public interest, or for historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes. Establish, exercise or defend legal claims. How to contact u Legally ELIXIR Belgium form part of VIB (Flemish Institute of Biotechnology) and therefore us VIBs legal personality. E-mail: privacy@vib.be Phone: +32 9 244 66 11 VIB, Communications Department, Rijvisschestraat 120, 9052 Ghent Last update 10/03/2022 Financed by the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) and the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant I002819N. Links Subscribe to Newsletter 2024 . All Rights Reserved.