ELIXIR is a European life science infrastructure, enabling researcher to access and analyse life science data, to improve the value and impact of life science research on public health, the environment and the economy. ELIXIR brings together life science resource from across Europe. These resource include databases, software tools, training materials, cloud storage and supercomputers. The goal of ELIXIR is to coordinate these resource so that they form a single infrastructure. This infrastructure make it easier for scientist to find and share data, exchange expertise, and agree on best practices. Ultimately, it will help them gain new insight into how living organism work. Search form Search ELIXIR is a European life science infrastructure, bringing together scientist from 23 country and over 250 research institutes. We enable researcher to access and analyse life science data, to improve the value and impact of life science research on public health, the environment and the economy. What we offer Guidelines and best practice to help you manage life science data, run training courses, develop software and more. Find the right software, training courses, standard and more in our interlinked portal to life science resources. Find compute services, databases, and the full list of resource ELIXIR coordinates. Join event and project that bring the private and public sector together. Join a scientific group in ELIXIR or partner with u to apply for EC funding. If you work at an institute that is part of ELIXIR, then remember to take advantage of the benefit ELIXIR offers. News How we work We bring scientist together from 23 country and 220 research institutes. Our goal is to make life science data easier to find, share, aggregate and analyse. Each country that is a member of ELIXIR ha a "Node". A Node is the collection of research institute that work for ELIXIR in that country. The Node institute run national service and support local users. The European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI) is also a Node, but is an international organisation rather than a country. Platforms bring together expert from Nodes to develop ELIXIRs technical vision and coordinate it technical activities. Communities bring together expert to develop ELIXIRs vision and coordinate it activity within a particular life science domain. Focus Groups are informal group that look at topic of emerging interest for ELIXIR. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search ELIXIR is a European life science infrastructure, bringing together scientist from 23 country and over 250 research institutes. We enable researcher to access and analyse life science data, to improve the value and impact of life science research on public health, the environment and the economy. What we offer Guidelines and best practice to help you manage life science data, run training courses, develop software and more. Find the right software, training courses, standard and more in our interlinked portal to life science resources. Find compute services, databases, and the full list of resource ELIXIR coordinates. Join event and project that bring the private and public sector together. Join a scientific group in ELIXIR or partner with u to apply for EC funding. If you work at an institute that is part of ELIXIR, then remember to take advantage of the benefit ELIXIR offers. News How we work We bring scientist together from 23 country and 220 research institutes. Our goal is to make life science data easier to find, share, aggregate and analyse. Each country that is a member of ELIXIR ha a "Node". A Node is the collection of research institute that work for ELIXIR in that country. The Node institute run national service and support local users. The European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI) is also a Node, but is an international organisation rather than a country. Platforms bring together expert from Nodes to develop ELIXIRs technical vision and coordinate it technical activities. Communities bring together expert to develop ELIXIRs vision and coordinate it activity within a particular life science domain. Focus Groups are informal group that look at topic of emerging interest for ELIXIR. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here About u ELIXIR is an intergovernmental organisation that brings together life science resource from across Europe. These resource include databases, software tools, training materials, cloud storage and supercomputers. The goal of ELIXIR is to coordinate these resource so that they form a single infrastructure. This infrastructure make it easier for scientist to find and share data, exchange expertise, and agree on best practices. Ultimately, it will help them gain new insight into how living organism work. is an example of an ELIXIR resource. TeSS is online training portal that gather life science training material and training course from across Europe, and allows you to search it in one website. This make it easier for scientist to find the training they need, and give the training course wider publicity. ELIXIR includes 22 member and threeObservers, bringing together over 240 research organisations. It wa founded in December 2013 and began implementing it first scientific programme in 2014. It is currently implementing it thirdfive-year . Find out more Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here What we do ELIXIR coordinate anddevelopslife science resource across Europe so that researcher can more easily find, analyse and share data, exchange expertise, and implement best practices. This make it possible for them to gain greater insight into how living organism work. More detail of what we do Develop way that researchersacross Europe can access, store, transfer and analyse large amount of life science data. See the . Identify key data resource across Europe and support the linkage between data and literature e.g. by making it easier to move from a scientific paper to the dataset that the paper wa based on. See the . Provide way for researcher to find the best software to analyse their data. See the . Establish Europe-wide standard that can be used to describe life science data. This make different data set easier to compare and analyse. See the . Help scientist and developer find the training they need, and also provide that training. See the . Develop communities, standards, database and tool in selected life science domain (e.g. Marine Metagenomics, Human Data). See . What are Platforms and Communities? The scientific and technical activity in ELIXIR are run by five Platforms and a number of Communities (formerly called 'Use Cases'). Platforms bring together expert to define the strategy and provide service in a particular area e.g. training, data. Communities bring together scientist who work in a specific domain (e.g. Plant Sciences). These scientist develop service targeted for their own domains. They also give feedback on the service the Platforms provide, to make sure that the service solve real world problems. See and . Scientific strategy The scientific direction of ELIXIR is laid out in the and in annual Work Plans. The Work Plans describe the activity that take place in each year. Find out more Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Who we are Map of member state within ELIXIR. Each member state establishes a 'Node' in it country, which is a network of institute that carry out the scientific and technical work of ELIXIR within that country. Orange = member states; pale orange = observers. Observers are country working towards full membership. We are a European intergovernmental organisation that is made up of life scientists, computer scientist and support staff. Our goal is to help researcher take advantage of the huge amount of data produced in life science, so that we can gain new insight into how living organism work in health and disease (see ). We have 23countries in ELIXIR, and we work together using a Hub and Nodes model: : The ELIXIR Hub is like a headquarters and coordinate the work across ELIXIR. The Hub is based at the Wellcome Genome Campus, near Cambridge, UK. : Each member state of ELIXIR establishes a Node. A Node is a network of organisation that work within a member state. Each Node ha a lead organisation that coordinate the local ELIXIR activity e.g. the Dutch Techcentre for Life Sciences (DTL) in Utrecht oversees the work of ELIXIR Netherlands, the Dutch Node. See also and . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here ELIXIR Hub The ELIXIR Hub is in the South Building, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge ELIXIR is organised using a'Hub and Nodes' model, where the Hub's role is to coordinatethe work done by the Nodes (see ). The Hub's role The ELIXIR Hub: accommodates executive management and administrative staff ha responsibility for developing and delivering ELIXIR's scientific strategy (see) and managingcarried out by Nodes coordinate the service run from the ELIXIR Nodes coordinate and support ELIXIR's work with other biomedical science infrastructure to help address the challenge of Big Data together (see ) lead ELIXIR's communication and external relation activities, including support to industry support the institution within the Nodes collaborates with national and European funders and policy-makers. The ELIXIR Hub is at the Wellcome Genome Campus in Hinxton, Cambridge. It is based next to EMBL-EBI, in a building opened in autumn 2013 (see the). The building wa through it commitment a host country. Travelling to the Hub See for travel and accommodation information. Hub staff Team/Role Head Tim Hubbard Ivana Veri Andrew Smith Serena Scollen Vera Herkommer Juan Arenas Peter Maccallum Director Tim Hubbard ELIXIR Director tim.hubbard [at] elixir-europe.org Andrew Smith Interim Director and Head of External Relations andrew.smith [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494635 Administration and Operations Sara Ashraf Finance Officer sara.ashraf [at] elixir-europe.org Jilly Cheshire Administrator jilly.cheshire [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494540 Zuzana Clarke Senior Administrative Officer - Events zuzana.clarke [at] elixir-europe.org Alice Gregory Administrative Assistant alice.gregory [at] elixir-europe.org Phyllida Hallidie PA to the Director phyllida.hallidie [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494140 Chlo Llewellyn Administrative Officer - Events chloe.llewellyn [at] elixir-europe.org Laura Mangan Administrative Officer laura.mangan [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494188 Ivana Veri Head of Operations ivana.versic [at] elixir-europe.org Joana Wingender Governance and International Partnerships Officer joana.wingender [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 492670 External Relations Erika Balsyte External Relations Officer erika.balsyte [at] elixir-europe.org Martin Cook Senior Web Developer martin.cook [at] elixir-europe.org Prithviraj Mitra Web Developer prithviraj.mitra [at] elixir-europe.org Andrea Guzman Mesa International Relations Officer andrea.guzmanmesa [at] elixir-europe.org Andrew Smith Head of External Relations andrew.smith [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494635 Despoina Sousoni Industry and Innovation Officer despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org Yun-Yun Tseng Communications Officer yun-yun.tseng [at] elixir-europe.org Elaine Harrison Communications Manager elaine.harrison [at] elixir-europe.org Human Genomics and Translational Data Daniel Barrowdale Scientific Officer daniel.barrowdale [at] elixir-europe.org Magda Chegkazi Programme Manager for Human Genomics and Translational Data magda.chegkazi [at] elixir-europe.org Giselle Kerry Programme Manager for Human Genomics and Translational Data giselle.kerry [at] elixir-europe.org Melissa Konopko Scientific Product Manager melissa.konopko [at] elixir-europe.org Arshiya Merchant Human Data Science Officer arshiya.merchant [at] elixir-europe.org Serena Scollen Head of Human Genomics and Translational Data serena.scollen [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494322 Legal Services Vera Herkommer ELIXIR General Counsel vera.herkommer [at] elixir-europe.org Martina Caloi Legal Officer martina.caloi [at] elixir-europe.org Louiza Kalokairinou Legal and Ethics Officer louiza.kalokairinou [at] elixir-europe.org Project Management Unit Laura Carletti Senior Project Manager laura.carletti [at] elixir-europe.org Nikki Coutts Project Manager nikki.coutts [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494539 Maria Dolores (Mado) Fernandez Project Manager mado.fernandez [at] elixir-europe.org Juan Arenas Mrquez Head of ELIXIR Project Management Office and European Genomic Data Infrastructure Deployment Lead juan.arenas [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494370 Hannah Hurst Project Manager hannah.hurst [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 492606 Yaseen Jakhura yaseen.jakhura [at] elixir-europe.org Technical Project Officer Mercedes Steiner Project Administrator mercedes.steiner [at] elixir-europe.org Ellie Taverner Project Officer ellie.taverner [at] elixir-europe.org Kelly Tunstall Commission Services Portfolio Manager kelly.tunstall [at] elixir-europe.org Maria Tyler Senior Project Manager maria.tyler [at] elixir-europe.org Technical Team Monica Abrudan Senior Science Officer(EOSC ENTRUST and EVERSE) Mihail Anton Senior Science Officer (Tools and Training Platforms) mihail.anton [at] elixir-europe.org Physilia Chua Senior Science Officer physilia.chua [at] elixir-europe.org Gavin Farrell Technical Officer gavin.farrell [at] elixir-europe.org Clare Garrard Scientific Officer - Life Science Communities & Open Science clare.garrard [at] elixir-europe.org Katharina Heil (on maternity leave) Programme Manager Communities and Training katharina.heil [at] elixir-europe.org Deepti Jaiswal Kundu Communities Liason deepti.jaiswal-kundu [at] elixir-europe.org Fabio Liberante Programme Manager for Data and Interoperability Platforms fabio.liberante [at] elixir-europe.org David Lloyd Project Technical Coordinator david.lloyd [at] elixir-europe.org +44 (0)1223 494691 Peter Maccallum Chief Technical Officer peter.maccallum [at] elixir-europe.org Jonathan Tedds Programme Manager for Scientific Computing: ELIXIR Compute Platform, Tools Platform & EOSC Coordinator jonathan.tedds [at] elixir-europe.org Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here ELIXIR Nodes An ELIXIR Node is a collection of research institute within a member country. ELIXIR Nodes run the resource and service that are part of ELIXIR. Each Node ha a lead institute that oversees the work of that Node.For example, ELIXIR Norway's lead institute is the University of Bergen. The other institute in the Node arethe University of Oslo, the University of Troms, the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, and the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. If you would like to contact your local Node, choose the Node from the list below. Each Node page ha a "contact" section, so just contact your Node using the detail you find there. The Nodes build on the strength of the scientific community of that country.Norway, for example, ha leading research centre in marine biology, so ELIXIR Norway provides service focused on marine metagenomics and fish genomics. EMBL (European Molecular Biology Laboratory) is an intergovernmental organisation so it is the only Node that is not associated with a country. List of Nodes The date show wheneach country joined ELIXIR. Cyprus, Austria and Romania are not yet member of ELIXIR. They are observer and are working towards full membership (see). (observer) Austria (observer) Romania (observer) Explore the Nodes Use the map below the find out the institution that make up each Node. Map not appearing? Try viewing this page a new private/incognito window in your browser. Legend Orange pin: institute within a Node Star: lead institute within a Node Red pin: institute in an Observer country Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Why ELIXIR is needed To manage the huge increase in life science data The rise of high throughput technology such a sequencingas well asmany other technology producing diverse, varied and complex datahas meant that life science is producing huge amount of data. Most research centre do not have the facility to store or transfer this much data, nor the expertise to analyse them. ELIXIR's is creating a network of supercomputer service that is making it easier for researcher to manage this data deluge. It enables researcher across Europe to use existing facility to access, store, transfer and analyse large and complex datasets, in the cloud. The is establishing quality criterion for data resources, so researcher can more easily choose the best suited to their needs. The Platform also work to better link data and related literature. To deal with the increasing complexity of data Life science data existin a wide range of formats, and aredescribed in different ways. This make it difficult to merge datasets and analyse the data. ELIXIRs establishes standard that can be used to describe life science data, thereby making different datasets easier to compare and analyse together. Thehelps researchersto identify the training they need, andruns course on dealing with large and complex datasets. To make it easier to find the right tool and training Biological science increasingly involves large amount of data and it is not easy to find the right software to analyse them. If a researcher find the right software for what they want to do, they have to learn how to use it. For this, and handling large datasets in general, they need specialist training. ELIXIR ha built a to make it easier to find the right research tools. The also tool for quality to help researcher make more informed choices. The make it easier more people to learn how to use these tools, a well a increasing the discoverability of a range of training resource through a covering all aspect of bioinformatics and computational biology. Through it Train the Trainer programme, it also keep the trainer themselves up to date with current best practice a well a providing pedagogic skill to trainers. To build a more robust bioinformatics infrastructure Bioinformatics is a constantly evolving discipline. Some country in Europe operate mature bioinformatics services, resource and underlying infrastructures. Other countries, though, are still developing theirs. ELIXIR promotes an exchange of knowledge and technical support across Europe so that le maturebioinformatics service and resourcesare helped to grow and ultimately forma pan-European, integrated infrastructure. This provides significant efficiency saving to the country that fund these infrastructures. To support the long-term sustainability of the infrastructure, ELIXIR work with funders, policy-makers and other important stakeholder to showcase itsand , and that of Open Science more broadly, including through us of it resource by industry. To drive innovation and industry usage Handling and analysing the massive amount and complexity of data now generated in life science often take more resource than agri-business and biotech firm have. One solution is to collaborate with public-funded organisation such a ELIXIR. To foster this, ELIXIR run an that promotes collaboration through networking and staff exchanges. The ELIXIR infrastructuremakes life science data around Europe more accessible, and provides easier way to analyse and gain new insight from these data. These new insight in turn stimulateinnovations in biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, a well a in agricultural and environmental research. This result in economic growth through job creation and tax revenues, a well ashelping toaddress some of the societal challenge we face, such a an ageing population, environmental degradation and food security. Find out more Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Governance The ELIXIR Governance structure is defined in the . the highest decision-making body in ELIXIR. advises the Board on ELIXIR's scientific strategy and review ELIXIR Node applications. give advice and guidance on industry needs. responsible to the ELIXIR Board for implementing ELIXIR's scientific programme. consists of the head of the ELIXIR national infrastructure (Nodes). The Committee advises the ELIXIR Director to develop ELIXIRs scientific and technical strategy, including it programme. Chart showing that the main ELIXIR governing group is the ELIXIR Board. This is advised by the Scientific Advsory Board (SAB) and the Industry Advisory Board. Operational structure : ELIXIR ha five operational platforms: Data, Tools, Compute, Interoperability and Training. Each platform is led by a leadership team agreed by the . The Platform membership consists of task leads, technical staff and a Platform Coordinator. Each Platform Coordinator provides support to the Platform leader and ensures that the Platform's activity are aligned to it goals. : ELIXIR ha whose aim is to drive the development of the ELIXIR infrastructure from different user perspectives. These include a group of Human Data Communities. Four Communities were initiated during the with others being added continuously to broaden ELIXIR's user base. Coordinator group is comprised of technical representative from each ELIXIR Node. The group identifies gap and promotes connection among Nodes and Platforms. It is the responsibility of the TeCG to explore technical opportunity and issue aiming to provide advice and recommendations. The TeCG is connected with Platforms through Node technical representative actively involved in the implementation of Platforms. is composed of training representative of each of the ELIXIR Nodes. TrCG meet regularly to share information, expertise and to coordinate and lead the implementation of the ELIXIR training strategy across Europe. The Node Coordinators Group is composed of representative from ELIXIR Nodes. The purpose of the group is to share information and best practise in the operation of the ELIXIR Node. In many ELIXIR Nodes, the Node Coordinator is a key operational position funded by national funding. Handbook of Operations The provides information on the governance structure of ELIXIR, a well a it procedure and policies. Legal model The legal framework of ELIXIR is based on the , which ha been concluded among the Member States and and officially entered into force on 12 January 2014. Based on the ECA, EMBL carry out activity on behalf of ELIXIR that require EMBLs legal personality. This allows ELIXIR to take advantage of EMBLs privilege and immunities.EMBLis an international treaty organisation with 23Member States and twoassociate Member States.You can find out more about ELIXIR's legal and governance model on the . The is the legal document that tie together the ELIXIR Hub and the national Node. See also . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Data protection in ELIXIR An overview of ELIXIR, with the point most relevant to data protection. What personal data the ELIXIR Hub handles, personal data the Nodes handle and data transfersfrom the Nodes. ELIXIR's legal personality and what it mean in term of data protection. The policy that protect personal data across ELIXIR. Who to contactfor query concerning data protection. What ELIXIR is ELIXIR is an intergovernmental organisation for life science dataand resource (read more in page and in the ). ELIXIR is organised in a Hub and Nodes model, where the Hub act a the coordinator of the infrastructure, which is composed of service run by the Nodes. The Hub and the Nodes carry out different functions, and therefore handle different kind of personal data. The carry out administration and coordinate the ELIXIRinfrastructure. An is a collection of research institute within a country that is an ELIXIR member. ELIXIR Nodes run the scientific resource and service that are part of the ELIXIR infrastructure. Personal data What personal data doe ELIXIR deal with? In practice the ELIXIR Hub deal with personal admin data in three different context (a,b,c): Context Personal data collected a. ELIXIR administration Admin data from our staff and from our governance body member and delegates, and from the member of operational group of ELIXIR, which ELIXIR need to carry out it day-to-day administration and management. b. funded by ELIXIR Admin data (e.g. name, email address, home institute) from the individual involved in the management of these projects. Read more on our . c. coordinated by the Hub Admin data (e.g. name, email address, home institute) from the individual involved in the management of EU Projects coordinated by the ELIXIR Hub. Read more on our . What personal data doe the ELIXIR Hub NOT deal with? The ELIXIR Hub ha no access to the scientific data processed by the Nodes for internal and EU-funded projects. What personal data do the Nodes deal with? The Nodes deal with personal admin (e.g. their own staff) and scientific data. Some EU project (e.g. B1MG, BY-COVID) do involve personal data like genomic sequence or genotypic and phenotypic data from individuals. Such scientific data is processed by the ELIXIR Nodes or other project beneficiaries. This mean that: In ELIXIR Nodes located within the EU, the data is protected by European data protection legislation (GDPR). In ELIXIR Nodes located outside the EU (Israel, Switzerland, and the UK), the data is protected by an essentially equivalent level of protection a that afforded within the EU. This is recognised by the adequacy decision granted to those country by the European Commission. Any genetic or health-related data collected during project is handled by the Nodes and thus protected by the GDPR rule (for Nodes within the EU) or national data protection rule (applicable to extra EU Nodes) on sensitive data. Is any personal data transferred within ELIXIR (e.g. Hub and Nodes)? Yes, but only in the following instanceand only for certain type of data: The Nodes transfer administrative data to the Hub e.g. contact detail of people involved in the management of . Please note: Scientific data, which may include sensitive data, processed in the context of internal project and EU projects, is never transferred to the Hub. ELIXIRs legal model ELIXIR is a consortium consisting of 21 country and the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL). As such, ELIXIR lack it own legal personality. To overcome this, EMBL ha agreed to allow ELIXIR to use it legal personality a an international organisation. There are two main consequence of this borrowed legal personality: 1. EMBL and ELIXIR are not subject to GDPR In the context of data protection, EMBL and ELIXIR are not subject to the EU , the data protection law applied by EU countries.With EMBLs legal personality, ELIXIR also inherits EMBLs privilege and immunity a an international organisation (IO). The unimpeded functioning of an IO and the achievement of it objective imply that it is exempt from national data protection law, to ensure it autonomous organisational and administrative sovereignty. 2. ELIXIR applies EMBLs data protection rule Though the GDPR doe not apply, ELIXIR is still subject to data protection rules, involving high standard comparable to those of GDPR. It applies EMBLs data protection scheme, called (IP68). The IP68 is adapted to the need of an international scientific research organisation but reflects the principle of European data protection law while remaining within the boundary of EMBLs legal status. You can read more about ELIXIRs legal model and it relationship with EMBL on . See below for more about ELIXIRs legal model and data protection. ELIXIRs data protection framework ELIXIR applies EMBLs a it data protection law. Why is it called policy? EMBL a an international organisation cannot produce law a understood within national contexts, where the State emanates rule that are binding on all it citizens. Internal Policies however are effectively internal law that EMBL (and ELIXIR) are obliged to follow. The Internal Policy 68 support the principle of GDPR in a form adapted to the intergovernmental nature of the organisation. It contains e.g. principle to follow for data processing, it list the legal basis to rely on for lawful processing, lay out the right of data subject and provides for the appointment and independence of a Data Protection Officer. Why doe ELIXIR not apply GDPR? GDPR doe not apply to international organisation (recognised by the European Data Protection Board in it of 12 November 2019, at page 23). Principle of functional necessity: international organisation are granted certain privilege and immunity to properly fulfil their task entrusted to them by their Member States. The unimpeded functioning of an IO and the achievement of it objective imply that it is exempt from the application of national and EU data protection law. ELIXIR need to maintain an open approach with regard to data protection standard because ELIXIR Member States are not all European or part of the EU. Why applying Internal Policy 68 is adequate in term of GDPR Internal Policy 68 adapts GDPR principle to the intergovernmental nature of the organisation, a well a it need for free scientific research that cross border and allows for extensive collaboration. ELIXIR follows and applies fundamental principle of the GDPR see . Contacts ELIXIR Hubs Data Controller Tim Hubbard ELIXIR Director EMBL-EBI Wellcome Genome Campus CB10 1SD Hinxton Cambridgeshire, UK Email: data-protection [at] elixir-europe.org EMBL Data Protection Officer (DPO) dpo [at] embl.org Nodes Data Controller(s) Please contact the Data Protection Officer for each institute. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here How we are funded As a distributed infrastructure, ELIXIR ha a mixed funding model with contribution coming from a number of mostly public sources: Collectively, the ELIXIR Hub and Nodes compete for grant funding from the European Union, under Horizon 2020 and the Innovative Medicine Initiative (IMI); The ELIXIR Hub is funded through membership fee paid by Member countries, and much of this funding is then transferred back to Nodes (e.g. via ) to deliver ELIXIRs five-year ; ELIXIR Nodes are typically funded through national-level investments, supporting national coordination, and the development and operation of services; ELIXIR Nodes also receive support from international funders, such a the US (NIH); Finally, some ELIXIR Nodes are able to access European Union Structural Funds, for instance to support national coordination and the purchasing of facilities. Other source of funding for Nodes include foundation (e.g. the Wellcome Trust and Wallenberg Foundation), and also the industry, though the latter is modest compared to the public funding received by Nodes. EU Projects ELIXIR is active in several large European Union grants, which support the work of the and . For further information, visit our page. Sustainability Plan give an overview of how ELIXIR intends to support the sustainability of the bioinformatics resource across it Nodes. Acknowledging ELIXIR funding There is guidance on . Find out more Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here EU Projects ELIXIR participates in several EU-funded project to drive the delivery of various bioinformatics service to the scientific community. The EU project enableELIXIR to collaborate with other key European and global initiative and . This page list the project that involve the . The may be involved in other EU project in their own capacity. We offer guidance on and on . Current project AgroServ (2022-2027) The AgroServ project will study how to achieve a resilient and sustainable agrifood system. This transdisciplinary project will bring together all actor of the agriculture system. Farmers are the first, thanks to a wide offer of living lab across Europe. By delivering a Europe-wide data ecosystem, AgroServ aim to grow the agroecology research community and support the cross-fertilisation of knowledge. More information: Grant number: 101058020 BiCIKL (2021-2024) The Biodiversity Community Integrated Knowledge Library (BiCKL) will connect infrastructure to enable researcher to access service across the biodiversity data lifecycle. It will build the Biodiversity Knowledge Hub (BKH) a single knowledge portal for interlinked and machine-readable FAIR data using unique stable identifier on specimens, genomics, observations, taxonomy and publications. More information: Grant number: 101007492 Biodiversity Genomics Europe (2022-2026) BGE is tackling three fundamental tasks: improving the capacity, production and application of biodiversity genomics in Europe. More information: Grant number: 101059492 BY-COVID (2021-2024) BY-COVID is a project funded under the European Unions Horizon Europe Research and Innovation Programme. It aim to make data about SARS-CoV-2 and other virus easier to access, aggregate and analyse. This will enable scientist to respond faster to new strain of SARS-CoV-2 or to new viruses. It will also help policy-makers ass the impact of the disease and take the most appropriate measure to protect people against new viral diseases. More information: Grant number: 101046203 canServ (2022-2025) canSERV provides cutting edge, interdisciplinary and customised oncology service across the entire cancer continuum. The aim is to offer a comprehensive portfolio of oncology-related research service available to all scientist in EU member countries, associated country and beyond. The project unites a multidisciplinary consortium of 19 European partners, consisting of Research Infrastructures, key organisation in the field of oncology, project management and sustainability experts. More information: Grant number: 101058620 EHDS2 Pilot (2022-2024) EHDS2 Pilot will build a pilot version of the European Health Data Space (EHDS) infrastructure for the secondary use of health data HealthData&EU which will serve research, innovation, policy making and regulatory purposes. More information: Grant number: 825775 ELIXIR-STEERS (2024-2027) ELIXIR-STEERS aim to help life science researcher to access national data set and conduct large-scale, cross-border analysis of data from across Europe. More information: Grant number: 101131096 EOSC4Cancer (2022-2025) EOSC4Cancer will make cancer genomics, imaging, medical, clinical, environmental and socio-economics data accessible, using and enhancing existing federated system for identifying, sharing, processing and reusing cancer data. More information: Grant number: 101058427 EOSC-EVERSE (2024-27) The EVERSE project aim to create a framework for research software and code excellence, collaboratively designed and championed by the research communities. It aim to build a European network of Research Software Quality and lay the foundation of a future Virtual Institute for Research Software Excellence. More information: Grant number: 101129744 EOSC-ENTRUST (2024-27) EOSC-ENTRUST aim to create a European network of Trusted Research Environments (TREs) for sensitive data and drive European interoperability by joint development of a common blueprint for federated data access and analysis. More information: Grant number: 101131056 EOSC-Future (2021-24) EOSC Future will establish a trusted platform with open and FAIR data, resource and service for all scientific disciplines. The platform will also seamlessly integrate existing data and service from science communities, research infrastructure and e-infrastructures. Via a single sign-on system, European researcher will thus have access to interoperable resource and support to manage the full lifecycle of their data. More information: Grant number: 101017536 EVORA (2024-26) EVORA is building resilience for pandemics, addressing critical need linked to viral emergence, mitigating collateral effect such a fragmented research, regulatory obstacles, and governance issues. More information: Grant number: 101131959 The European Joint Programme on Rare Diseases (2019-2023) The European Joint Programme on Rare Diseases (EJP RD) brings over 130 institution from 35 country to create a comprehensive, sustainable ecosystem to support effective use of Rare Disease (RD) data and resources. The project will maximize the potential of already funded tool and programme by scaling them up, linking, and adapting them to the specific need of RD researchers. It will also develop a model of financial support for RD research coupled with accelerated translation of research result into clinical practice. Together with three other biomedical research infrastructure (BBMRI, ECRIN and EATRIS), ELIXIR play a crucial role of providing research infrastructure service and resource for efficient deposition, discoverability, access, and advanced use of RD data, samples, patient and tools. In particular, ELIXIR will work within Pillar 2 (Innovative Coordinated Access to Data and Services) in Work Package 10 (User-driven strategic planning and transversal activity for data ecosystem), Work Package 11 (Virtual platform for data and resources) and Work Package 12 (Enabling Sustainable FAIRness and Federation at the Record Level for RD Data, Patients and Samples). More information: Grant number: 825575 GenomicData Infrastructure (2022-26) The Genomic Data Infrastructure (GDI) project is enabling access to genomic and related phenotypic and clinical data across Europe. It is doing this by establishing a federated, sustainable and secure infrastructure to access the data. More information: Grant number: 101081813 OSCARS OSCARS brings together European Research Infrastructures (RIs) in the ESFRI roadmap and beyond to foster the uptake of Open Science in Europe. More information: Grant number: 101129751 Pathos (2020-2025) PathOS is a Horizon Europe project aiming to collect concrete evidence of Open Science effects, study the pathway of Open Science practices, from input to output, outcome and impact, including the consideration of enabling factor and key barriers. More information: Grant number: 101058728 PROPHET (2022-2026) PROPHET will deliver specific measure to educate and empower different stakeholder group citizens, healthcare professionals, and policy maker to play an active role in the self-management of health and self-care. The project will build a Personalised Prevention Roadmap for the future healthcare, that will be co-created together with a large panel of stakeholder gathered in the PROPHET Stakeholder Forum. More information: Grant number: 101057721 RItrainPlus This Project brings together, for the first time, research infrastructures, core facilities, business management Schools and European universities, in a new innovative concept to transform the access and empowerment of human resource for national and international scientific facility in Europe. More information: Grant number: 101008503 Past project The project are listed alphabetically. B1MG (2020-2023) The Beyond 1 Million Genomes (B1MG) consortium will provide coordination and support to the , which is based upon the commitment of 21 European Member States and Norway that have signed the Declaration Towards access to at least 1 million sequenced genome in the EU by 2022. More information: Grant number: 951724 BioMedBridges (2012-2015) BioMedBridges (Building data bridge between biological and medical infrastructure in Europe) wa a joint effort of twelve biomedical science research infrastructure on the ESFRI roadmap. The project developed a shared e-infrastructure the technical bridge to allow data integration in the biological, medical, translational and clinical domain and thus strengthen biomedical resource in Europe. It wa coordinated by the Eurpean Bioinformatics Institute (EBI). More information: Grant number: 284209 CINECA CINECA (Common Infrastructure for National Cohorts in Europe, Canada, and Africa) aim to deliver a transcontinental infrastructure for data discovery and sharing of human genetic and phenotypic data for research and healthcare. Key project challenge include developing standardised method and portal for federated search and discovery, an authentication and authorisation infrastructure, and harmonised metadata. A trans-national ELSI framework that enables data-sharing, and which adheres to national and European regulations, is a crucial component of the project. More information: Grant number: 825775 CORBEL (2015-2020) CORBEL (Coordinated Research Infrastructures Building Enduring Life-science Services) aim to establish and support new model for biological and medical research in Europe, by harmonising user access to resources, unifying data management and creating common ethical and legal services. It is a 14.5 million project, bringing together major biomedical Research Infrastructures and coordinated by the ELIXIR Hub. More information: Grant number: 654248 ELIXIR-CONVERGE (2020-2023) ELIXIR-CONVERGE will drive good data management, reproducibility and reuse across the ELIXIR Nodes. With partner from all 23 Nodes, ELIXIR-CONVERGE will start the work of creating a European data federation where interconnected national operation allow user to extract large, diverse datasets across national boundaries. More information: Grant number: 871075 EMBRIC ( 2015-2019) Funded with 9 million by the HORIZON 2020 programme, EMBRIC (European Marine Biological Research Infrastructure Cluster) connects marine biotechnology research infrastructure that focus on science, industry and regional growth. The project is coordinated by the ESFRI Research Infrastructure EMBRC - European Marine Biological Resource Centre. More information: Grant number: 654008 EMTRAIN (2009-2016) EMTRAIN (European Medicines Research Training Network) establishes a sustainable, pan-European platform for education and training, from basic science through clinical development to drug safety. The public consortium consists of six pan-European biomedical research infrastructure from the ESFRI roadmap, covering a broad spectrum of competency from molecule to human and with a pan-European dimension. More information: Grant number: 115015 ENVRIPlus (2015-2019) ENVRIplus is a Horizon 2020 project bringing together Environmental and Earth System Research Infrastructures to create a more coherent, interdisciplinary and interoperable cluster of Environmental Research Infrastructures across Europe. ELIXIR is involved in Theme 2 Data for science, which focus on the interoperability of data among the Research Infrastructures, data identification and citation services, data processing and curation. More information: Grant number: 654182 EOSC Enhance (2019-2021) EOSC Enhance aim to improve and enhance the discoverability of the service and resources. It will develop and augment the EOSC catalogue, and enrich the EOSC data offering by connecting the thematic cluster and cloud currently in development. More information: Grant number: 871160 EOSC-Life (2019-2023) The EOSC-Life project aim to create an open collaborative digital space for life science in the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC). The 13 research infrastructure involved in the project will publish data from facility and data resource in the EOSC. They will link these resource to open and reusable Tools and Workflows accessible to user via Europes national and international life-science clouds. EOSC-Life also aim to connect user across Europe to a single login authentication system and develop the policy needed to preserve and deepen the trust given by research participant and patient volunteering their data and samples. More information: Grant number: 824087 EOSCpilot (2017-2019) The European Open Science Cloud for Research pilot project (EOSCpilot) is supporting the first phase in the development of the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) a described in the . It is a consortium of 33 pan-European organisation & 15 third party with the objective of reducing fragmentation and improving interoperability between European data infrastructures. ELIXIR is a partner in the Data Interoperability Work Package and in the Governance Work Package. More information: Grant number: 739563 eTRANSAFE (2017-2022) The eTRANSAFE project aim to Enhance TRANslational SAFEty assessment through integrative knowledge management of the drug discovery process. A consortium of 26 organisation funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), eTRANSAFE will work towards the establishment of overarching policy and guideline for data sharing, secondary use of human safety data and use of pooled data and model in drug safety assessment. ELIXIR will be leading two main tasks: (1) creating a policy framework that allows industry and other organisation to share drug safety data and adhere to consistent guideline for predictive toxicology models, and (2) data interoperability and integration. More information: Grant number: 777365 EU-STANDS4PM (2019-2021) EU-STANDS4PM will initiate an EU-wide mapping process to ass and evaluate strategy for data-driven in silico modelling approaches. A central goal is to develop harmonised transnational standards, recommendation and guideline that allow a broad application of predictive in silico methodology in personalised medicine across Europe. More information: Grant number: 825843 EXCELERATE (2015-2019) EXCELERATE isa 19 million project to help ELIXIR coordinate and extend national and international data resource and ensure the delivery of world-leading life-science data services. It support a pan-European training programme, anchored in national infrastructures, to increase bioinformatics capacity and competency. Coordinated by the ELIXIR Hub, it involves47 partner from 17 countries. More information: Read our Grant number: 676559 FAIRplus (2019-2022) The FAIRplus project aim to develop tool and guideline for making life science data FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable). The project ha 21 partner from academia and industry, and run from January 2019 to December 2022. More information: Grant number: 802750 HealthyCloud (2020-2023) The objective of HealthyCloud is to generate guidelines, recommendation and specification to enable distributed health research across Europe in the form of a Ready-to-implement Roadmap. Together with the feedback from diverse stakeholders, this roadmap will be the basis to produce the final HealthyCloud Strategic Agenda for the European Health Research and Innovation Cloud (HRIC). More information: Grant number: 965345 RI Impact Pathways (2018-2020) RI Impact Pathways is an 1.5 million project which aim to develop a model to describe the socio-economic impact of research infrastructure and their related financial investments. The model is intended to be applicable to research infrastructure across all domain and will be tested on ELIXIR, Cern, Alba and Desy. More information: (note that the original project website no longer exists) Grant number: 777563 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Sustainability Plan provides an overview of previous, current and future action that aim to support the sustainability of bioinformatics resource across ELIXIRs Nodes. These action are articulated around four main objectives: Identify the scale of the funding challenge; Promote the development of fit for purpose funding model for sustaining open and free bioinformatics resources; Use excellence and quality of ELIXIRs bioinformatics resource a driver of sustainability; Demonstrate and communicate the impact of ELIXIR and it bioinformatics resources. This Plan address many of the recommendation from: the recommendation of the of the European Strategy Forum for Research Infrastructures (ESFRI); the European Commission Staff on the long-term sustainability of research infrastructure (page 9). | | Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here ELIXIR Publications ELIXIR's new Scientific Programme 2024-28 Key guidance Guidance related to(requires login), e.g. branding guidelines, style guide, logos, template Key ELIXIR publication ELIXIR ha produced or contributed to numerous publication providing . We also maintain a of ELIXIR-supported publications. The ELIXIR Gateway on F1000Research The provides an option for open access, open peer-review research articles. Along with other of publishlising ELIXIR-related research article in this Gateway, the ELIXIR Hub will cover the article processing charges. Beyondresearch , it is also possible to publish (e.g. reports, roadmaps, process and strategy documents, reviews, use cases, etc.) This provides a useful overview of the ELIXIR Gateway at it fifth anniversary. We also have a dedicated area for documents, poster and slide linked to the annual . Programmes and Annual Reports Strategies and roadmaps Publicity material Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Impact Browse example of ELIXIR's impact, with more to be added over time. If you are part of ELIXIR, do join our (requires login) to access a network of like-minded peers. What we are doing with industry and SMEs. ELIXIR supported the development of a globally adopted data-sharing technology. Our contribution to job and recruitment in the bioinformatics sector. How ELIXIR Nodes work together to create a pan-European research infrastructure. Mentions of ELIXIR resource name in patent applications. ELIXIR's scientific legacy a a research infrastructure. Our engagement with stakeholder of the policy sphere. The ELIXIR Impact Toolkit and supporting resources. Search for many more example of ELIXIR's impact, and filter them by impact category. Supported by Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Job vacancy To advertise on this page: if you are from an ELIXIR Node, or from an academic institute or an industry related to ELIXIR's work, you can submit a job advertisement using the button. Advertising is free, but please note that submission are moderated. If you are in an ELIXIR Node you can embed this job list in your site using the (on the intranet). You can view the number of job vacancy posted each year in our . The job is from All source ELIXIRAcademia (non-ELIXIR)Industry Country <Any>ArmeniaAustraliaAustriaBelgiumCroatiaCzech RepublicDenmarkEstoniaFinlandFranceGermanyGreeceHungaryIrelandIsraelItalyLatviaLuxembourgMaltaNorwayPolandPortugalRomaniaSlovakiaSloveniaSpainSwedenSwitzerlandThe NetherlandsUKUnited States Job title Title Organisation Closing date Location Seqera Labs (Not specified) Barcelona, Spain Seqera Labs (Not specified) Barcelona, Spain DTU (Not specified) Denmark, Denmark Rga Stradi University (Not specified) Riga, Latvia IBFG 10 May 2024 SALAMANCA, Spain ELIXIR Hub 12 May 2024 Hinxton, UK EMBL-EBI 12 May 2024 Hinxton, UK EMBL-EBI 12 May 2024 Hinxton, UK University of Sheffield 15 May 2024 Sheffield, UK Alan Turing Institute 19 May 2024 London, UK IMMERGE 20 May 2024 Milan, Italy EMBL-EBI 20 May 2024 Hinxton, UK EMBL-EBI 20 May 2024 Hinxton, UK Cardiff University 28 May 2024 Cardiff, UK EMBL-EBI 29 May 2024 Hinxton, UK UPF 15 June 2024 Barcelona, Spain UPF 15 June 2024 Barcelona, Spain Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here What we offer Guidelines and best practice to help you manage life science data, run training courses, develop software and more. Find the right software, training courses, standard and more in our interlinked portal to life science resources. Find compute services, databases, and the full list of resource ELIXIR coordinates. Join event and project that bring the private and public sector together. Join a scientific group in ELIXIR or partner with u to apply for EC funding. If you work at an institute that is part of ELIXIR, then remember to take advantage of the benefit ELIXIR offers. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Guidelines and best practice Research data management The Research Data Management Kit (RDMkit) guide you through the whole data management life cycle and includes advice specific to your domain, your role and your country. The FAIR Cookbook contains step-by-step recipe to accomplish specific data management task and to make your data FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable). The Data Stewardship Wizard (DSW) is an online tool that guide researcher and data steward through their data management planning. More data management guidance (resources ELIXIR recommends for the deposition of experimental data) (resources ELIXIR recommends for connecting data to other scientific resources) Software development (in collaboration with Research Data Alliance) (with contribution from ELIXIR) Training More guideline Bioschemas encourages life scientist to use Schema.org markup in their websites, so that life science resource are easier to find on the web. The ELIXIR Impact Toolkit help demonstrateELIXIR's performance and it value to the public. The Toolkitmay be useful to similar organisations. ELIXIR internal guideline The contains procedures, recommendation and guideline for work within ELIXIR. It also give an overview of the governance and administration of ELIXIR, plus the various technical operation and how they are funded. We also provide guidance on and . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Web portal ELIXIR support and contributes to website that allow you to find the software, training, standard and other resource that you need. Find the right databases, standard and policy ELIXIR Deposition Databases are the database that ELIXIR recommends for you to store your open life science data. FAIRsharing.org allows you to search for database and data policy by aspect such a domain, specie and country. Find the right software tool and workflow bio.tools help you find and select bionformatics software and connect it in workflows. Search a repository of containerised software that you can build into workflows. A registry for sharing and publishing scientific computational workflows. Make your resource easier to find and share ELIXIR-recommended tool and registry that help make your resource FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable). Find training course and material Search for training courses, webinars, training material and workflow in TeSS, ELIXIR's training portal. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Services ELIXIR coordinate and develops life science service across Europe (see ). Search, browse by the theme below or . <Any>Chemical biologyEnzymes, interaction and pathwaysEvolution and phylogenyGenes and genomesLiteratureMolecular and cellular structuresProteins and proteome <Any>Core Data ResourcesELIXIR Deposition DatabasesRecommended Interoperability Resources <Any>ComputeData resourcesInteroperability and standardsSoftware toolsTraining <Any>ELIXIR Belgium ELIXIR CyprusELIXIR Czech RepublicELIXIR DenmarkELIXIR EstoniaELIXIR FinlandELIXIR FranceELIXIR GermanyELIXIR GreeceELIXIR HungaryELIXIR Ireland ELIXIR IsraelELIXIR ItalyELIXIR LuxembourgELIXIR NetherlandsELIXIR NorwayELIXIR PortugalELIXIR SloveniaELIXIR SpainELIXIR SwedenELIXIR SwitzerlandELIXIR UKEMBL-EBI Keywords Scientific domain Type of service Key service collection : ELIXIR provides a range of service that you can use for studying the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and the COVID-19 disease. Feedback: if you have any comment or suggestion for this page please feel free to email: webmaster [at] elixir-europe.org. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Innovation and Industry How to engage with u A chance to interact with expert on specific topic in the life science ecosystem. Collaborative project between industry and ELIXIR members. Discuss challenge and solution of the bioinformatics industry community. Stay up to date with the latest industry-relevant events, funding and collaborative projects. Work on solving bioinformatic challenge in our annual BioHackathon. Share your experience of how Research Infrastructures make access to open resource easy. What we are doing with industry and SMEs ELIXIR member active in industry; ELIXIR member; Non-ELIXIR member. ELIXIR Belgium Supporting the Data Analysis and Data Stewardship pillar of the which strives to increase the industry-readiness of life scientists. Co-organiser of the Innovation and SME Forum on Data Driven Innovation in the Agritech sector in March 2021 (). The is licensed to a number of company and industry project working on plant breeding, empowering the translational research performed in the agro-industry. ELIXIR Estonia ELIXIR Finland CSC IT Center for Science provides and in academia and industry. Up to 20% of the EuroHPC supercomputer capacity ha been reserved for companies. on health data anonymization, synthetic data and pseudonymization service technology, a part of the ELIXIR Knowledge Exchange Scheme. Partner of the IMI2 project providing data for building a central repository for digital pathology. ELIXIR Germany Women in Data Science - Perspectives in Industry and Academia ELIXIR Greece "Managing and Analysing Life Sciences Data", the Biomedical Sciences Research Center "Alexander Fleming" teamed up with the company to massively analyse omics data spanning 31 diseases, achieving a high level of predictive performance with just a few biomarkers (the are publicly available for querying and downloading). ELIXIR Italy : Data management in the life science - a driver for innovation in November 2019 Empowering ELIXIR Nodes to measure and communicate their performance and impact Dedicated Training Offer. The Training Platform activated a collaboration with , Parma, to carry out customized training activity on Pharmaceutical Bioinformatics and main application Software tool licence Agreement. The BioComputingUP lab of the University of Padova, member of the ELIXIR-IT Node, renewed it commercial licence agreement with the global biopharmaceutical company Sanofi, for a new version of the software package belonging to the Service List of ELIXIR-IT . Establishment of Research Contracts signed with Italfarmaco SpA, Polismail srl, Fondazione Santa Lucia, Vetoquinol srl, Ulisse Biomed, for service provided by the omics platform. ELIXIR Luxembourg Best Practices for storing genomic data in collaboration with . e (long-term data hosting, provision of safe, GDPR-compliant data access, data management services). ELIXIR Netherlands host the Dutch node of ELIXIR, set up a a public-private network with over 30 academic and over 20 industry partner including SMEs. It is common practice that Industry is involved in the activity of DTL. ELIXIR-NL will organise the ELIXIR SME Forum AI in Health in Utrecht, The Netherlands, in April 2023. ELIXIR-NL ha been instrumental in establishing an Industry engagement programme in (health-RI is funded by the and it ha active collaboration with Industry Associations including , , ). ELIXIR-NL support the Data Analysis and Data Stewardship pillar of the which strives to increase the industry-readiness of life scientists. ELIXIR Portugal Implementation of Knowledge Exchange Schemes between BioData and company from the agritech sector: Phenospex [] : Vitamin D Polymorphisms and Severity of COVID-19 Infection , in January 2020 - a mentoring programme for entrepreneur in life science and biotechnology, promoted by P-BIO in June 2021 Empowering ELIXIR Nodes to measure and communicate their performance and impact ELIXIR Spain / Spanish National Bioinformatics Institute (INB) Co-organiser of the Innovation and SME Forum to be colocalised with the ECCB2022 in September 2022. Co-organiser of the Innovation and SME Forum in June 2017. ELIXIR Sweden NBIS/ELIXIR-SE provides bioinformatics and advanced to both academia and private companies. Started a collaboration with the , funded by the ELIXIR Knowledge Exchange Scheme, centred on the node-developed service Metabolic Atlas and training. In 2019, ELIXIR-SE organised an . ELIXIR Switzerland/SIB Organised the in September 2021 on the ecosystem of health Offering and Recent and ongoing project with the industry include: A range of Innovative Medicines Initiative public-private partnership project around diabetes, obesity, cancer, with SIB lending data management (e.g. setting up federated data analysis system in ) and analytical skill with Lunaphore and the Geneva University Hospitals of the Quality Control for Molecular Diagnostics (QCMD) organization with Cellestia Biotech and using deep learning and molecular modelling with Addex Therapeutics to make human protein interaction data publicly available and FAIR through the SIB Resource neXtProt ELIXIR UK FAIRsharing work with the scientific publishing industry; two activity are ongoing: Working in the COVID-19 Rapid Peer Review Initiative, which brings together major scholarly publisher and the Research on Research Institute, to improve the response of the scholarly communication to the pandemic (). FAIRsharing ha contributed to of the journal and publisher participating in the initiative, to make result of COVID-19 article available for scrutiny and reproducibility. Working under the RDA FAIRsharing WG with major scholarly publisher to define selection feature for data repository and foster data sharing () Work in progress with the Pistoia Alliance to create of FAIR profile of pharma use of standard and data resources. Adopted by the IMI, the is an online resource for the Life Sciences with recipe that help you to make and keep data FAIR; developed by a , in the academia and the industry sectors, including member of the ELIXIR community and IMI . EMBL-EBI (European Molecular Biology Laboratory - European Bioinformatics Institute) . Disseminating cutting-edge technology to industry. EMBL-EBI stores, share and analysis data produced by life scientist all over the world. Work with u to solve your data challenges. Stay in touch Our quarterly industry newsletter is a great way to keep up to date with industry related activity and services. If you are a member of ELIXIR, you might want to join our internal (requires a log in). Dr. Despoina Sousoni ELIXIR Industry Officer Wellcome Genome Campus CB10 1SD Hinxton, UK despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org Related news 27 April 2023 14 April 2023 4 November 2022 20 October 2022 9 November 2021 Related event London, United Kingdom 29 November 2023 London, United Kingdom 21 November 2023 Basel, Switzerland 4 October 2023 Industry job Browse job in industry and advertise your own job for free on or . Training Access all our training course and material at the . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Opportunities to work together Join a scientific group Visit the Focus Group, Community or Platform page you are most interested in. There is a "Join" button at the bottom of each page. Focus Groups look at emerging area of interest in life science. They are more informal than ELIXIR Communities. ELIXIR Communities develop tools, standard and other resource for particular life science domains. ELIXIR Platforms develop and coordinate cross-domain service across ELIXIR. The Platforms are usually only open to ELIXIR members. ELIXIR organises BioHackathon Europe, an annual event where team write code to develop new life science resources. Work with u to write EC grant application and collaborate on European projects. If you work in a country that is a member, visit the page for your local ELIXIR Node and contact them. Find out about our partnership across Europe and around the globe. If your country is not a member of ELIXIR, find out how it can become a member. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here For ELIXIR member Not sure if you are a member of ELIXIR? Find you country in our . You will find a contact address for your local Node page. Contact your Node and ask if your department and institute are part of the ELIXIR Node. Your local Node will have the most up-to-date information on membership. ELIXIR group membership By joining an ELIXIR groupyoucan work with colleague across Europe todevelop services, standard and best practice in the area of life science that interest you. Each , and page ha a "Join" button at the bottom, so you can apply to join the group you are interested in. Some of these group are for ELIXIR member only. When you join a groupyou will join it mailing list. Groups use their mailing list to coordinate their activities.The footer of each group email you receive explains how you can leave the group and unsubscribe from it mailing list. ELIXIR All Hands meeting You can join ELIXIR colleague at the , which brings together the ELIXIR community to present work, and exchange and develop new ideas. You can find information on upcoming All Hands meeting in the and in the of the ELIXIR website. Opportunities for training and knowledge exchange The fund you to work in another Node for 3-6 months. The fund travel to events, travel between Nodes, and travel between a Node and the Hub. The fund the travel and accommodation needed to work on a project with an industry partner. Members of ELIXIR may also participate a part of the ELIXIR team in the . Contact Katharina Heil for more detail (katharina.heil [at] elixir-europe.org). There are occasional training course offered within grups, such a impact evaluation course within the . Institutes across ELIXIR run many courses, including Train the Trainer (TrT) courses. You can . Opportunities to engage with industry ELIXIR run event where you can meet industry partners: ,. The fundsyou to work with colleague in the private sector. The let you connect with colleague in the private sector. Contact Despoina Sousoni (despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org) if you would like to add some content. Join the and exchange best practice for partnering with industry. Thisgroup is for ELIXIR member only. Support with dissemination If you want to advertise an event or a news story from your Node, then you can email info [at] elixir-europe.org. The Hub may be able to promote this through the main ELIXIR communication channels: , , the , and the . Advertising jobs: you can advertise your job on the . Use the to fill in some basic details. You don't need to log in to access the form. You can join theto swap best practice and get ad hoc training in communications. This group is for ELIXIR member only. Subscription to ELIXIR newsletter You can subscribe to the . As a member of ELIXIR, we recommend that you subscribe to the Weekly Brief, which give you important news and useful information from the Hub and the Nodes. You can also suggest item for a newsletter. Contact info [at] elixir-europe.org if you would like to do that. Funding via Commissioned Services The Hub fund short-term technical project to advance the work of the Platforms and Communities, and to help connect resource across the Nodes.Platforms or Communities can apply for Commissioned Services. Other funding allowsyou to work in another Node or with an industry partner, and facilitate knowledge exchange (see ). You can find opportunity for travel and staff exchange advertised on the (when you are logged in). Help with grant application The ELIXIR Hub can provide letter of support for EU and national funding applications. For more information, contact Andy Smith (andrew.smith [at] elixir-europe.org). Access to the ELIXIR intranet If you are a member of ELIXIRand have joined a group, you will be able to log in to the . The intranet contains useful resource such a templates, logos, event guidelines, and the ELIXIR Handbook of Operations. You need to log in to the intranet to access link to restricted content like the All Hands registration link or information about the Travel Grant and Staff Exchange Schemes (see ). Fee-waiver for publication in the ELIXIR Gateway of F1000Research You can publisharticles, documents, poster and slide for free on the. To submit content, just go to the Gateway page and click the "Submit" button at the top. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here How we work How we work within ELIXIR ELIXIR's work is guided by five-year Scientific Programmes. See the . At a national level Each country that is a member of ELIXIR ha a "Node". A Node is the collection of research institute that work for ELIXIR in that country. The Node institute run national service and support local users. The European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI) is also a Node, but is an international organisation rather than a country. At a cross-national level Platforms bring together expert from Nodes to develop ELIXIRs technical vision and coordinate it technical activities. Communities bring together expert to develop ELIXIRs vision and coordinate it activity within a particular life science domain. Focus Groups are informal group that look at topic of emerging interest for ELIXIR. Internal project fund the Platforms and Communities to develop resources, and encourage collaboration across the Nodes. Technical and Training Coordinators provide advice and promote collaboration and the adoption of good practices. In addition to the above, ELIXIR ha it own internal , and group (login required). How we work with others ELIXIR both collaborates in and coordinate EU projects. ELIXIR organises event and project that bring the private and public sector together. ELIXIR collaborates extensively within and beyond Europe, and work with key research infrastructures. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Platforms ELIXIR Platforms bring together expert from Nodes to develop ELIXIRs technical vision and coordinate activity in defined technical areas. There are five Platforms: Data, Tools, Interoperability, Compute and Training. Aims to identify key data resource across Europe and support the linkage between data and literature. Helps researcher find the best software tool to analyse their data. Develops service to make it easier to store, share and analyse large datasets. Develops and encourages the adoption of standard to describe life science data. Helps scientist and developer find the training they need, and also provides that training. Find out more Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Data Platform The goal of the ELIXIR Data Platform is to drive the use, re-use and value of life science data. It aim to do this by providing user with robust, long-term sustainable data resource within a coordinated, scalable and connected data ecosystem. Bioinformaticians and life science researcher in both academic and industrial setting need confidence in the sound governance, life cycle management, and long-term sustainability of those data resources. They also need open access to technically and scientifically excellent data resource for effective data discovery, deposition, and re-use. The ELIXIR Data platform promotes Open Access a a core principle for publicly funded research. ELIXIR resource ideally reflect this commitment and have term of use or a licence that enables the reuse and remixing of data (see for a list of open licenses). Platform highlight : European data resource that are of fundamental importance to research in the life science and are committed to the long-term preservation of data. : repository recommended for the deposition of life science experimental data. : this list is updated a Nodes finalise or review their Service Delivery Plans (see ). What thePlatform doe To achieve it goal the Platform work in four Tasks. Task 1. Community and Data Management network engagement Leader: Silvio Tosatto(ELIXIR-IT) Goal: To engage the Communities, increase the uptake of Services and align the Data Platform with other related activity such a , , and the work of the . Activities: Anchoring the Data Management Expert network () to the Data Platform for long-term development beyond . Developing plan around Community data resource throughlandscape analyses. Developing data science workflow that ensure raw and processed data from experiment are made available via (CDR), (EDD) and ELIXIR Community data resources. EngagingELIXIR Communities around Data Platform service through outreach and training activity to ensure data management plan reflect the use of CDRs, EDDs and community data resource to maximise reuse. Task 2. Data Integration Leaders:Patrick Ruch(ELIXIR-CH) andIvan Mieti (ELIXIR-IT) Goal: To explore extending the connected ecosystem to any ELIXIR data resource, incorporating and aggregating more orphan data and human data, and providing connectivity with other element of the ELIXIR infrastructure. Activities: Integratingthe long tail of data into FAIR databases. Fostering the adoption of light-weight FAIR criterion for community-specific data resources, e.g. . Building and establishing aggregation databases, the aggregation database landscape and best practices. Task 3. Scalable Curation Leader:Patrick Ruch (ELIXIR-CH) Goal: To maximise the ability of expert human curator to enrich the ELIXIR knowledgebases through providing trans-resource andscalable curation solutions. Activities: Semantic annotating of documents, linked to underlying data resources. Investigating scalable article triage systems. Providingtechnology to support deep linking between Europe PMC and databases. Exploring opportunity and role for community curation. Task 4. Administration and support for Core Data Resource (CDR), Deposition Database (EDD) portfolio and Community Data Resources Leader:Sirarat Sarntivijai (ELIXIR-Hub) Goal:To supportthe establishment, and continuethe monitoring of global partnership in the and business case for the long term sustainability of , , and ELIXIR Community Resources. Activities: Sharingthe experience gained with the European life science data infrastructure from the ELIXIR Core Data Resource selection process, a consideration of global priority and resource allocation. Influencingthe development of Data Management Plans to ensure best practice and adoption of ELIXIR Core Data Resources and ELIXIR Deposition Databases. Participating in the international , working to ensure collective support for those data resource essential to the work of life science researchers, educators, and innovator worldwide. An example of the Platform's work: community annotation of Europe PMC document The Data Platform ha helped build a system that enables community annotation to appear in the abstract in . These annotation can be clicked on for further information. Before Before: An abstract at Europe PMC without annotations. Before the annotation system wa developed you could not highlight key term or click on them to access other data resource related to that term across the web. After After: You can now highlight key terms, and click the term for further information. Gene Function annotations, corresponding to s from Entrez Gene, have been mapped back to the article by the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics' text mining group, providing link to (an ELIXIR Core Data Resource). In the abstract above, the link is to the UniProt record for PTEN, where you can find a wealth of information about the protein, it function, the gene that encodes the protein, and the pathology caused by genetic variants. Commissioned Services The Data Platform is involved ina number of short-term, technical project called. These are currently: For completed project see the . Leadership Ulrike Wittig (ELIXIR Germany) Platform Lead Patrick Ruch (ELIXIR Switzerland) Platform Lead Silvio Tosatto (ELIXIR Italy) Platform Lead Fabio Liberante (Platform Coordinator, ELIXIR Hub) Gavin Farrell (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Officer Find out more Learn about the Core Data Resources work: Durinx C, McEntyre J, Appel R et al. Identifying ELIXIR Core Data Resources. F1000Research 2017, 5(ELIXIR):2422 (doi: ) Rachel Drysdale, Charles E Cook, Robert Petryszak, et al. The ELIXIR Core Data Resources: fundamental infrastructure for the life sciences, Bioinformatics, btz959 (doi: ) Drysdale R, McEntyre J, Durinx C et al. The Annual Indicator Monitoring and Periodic Review Processes: ELIXIR Core Data Resources and Deposition Databases [version 1; not peer reviewed]. F1000Research 2020, 9(ELIXIR):114 (document) () Learn more about the global data resource initiative: Data management: A global coalition to sustain core data. Nature 543, 179 (09 March 2017) doi: Towards Coordinated International Support Of Core Data Resources For The Life Sciences Biorxiv preprint (27 April 2017) doi: Stockinger H, Barlow M, Cook C et al. Plan for collation of metric and quality data at the ELIXIR Hub. (Zenodo2018) doi: See the current . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Tools Platform Members of the Tools Platform The Tools Platform help community find, register and benchmark software tools. These tool help researcher access, analyse and integrate biological data, and so drive scientific discovery across the life sciences. We maintain information standard for these tools, and produce, adopt and promote best practice for their development. We also: connect tool and data service link tool to training material make it easy to download, deploy, and benchmark tool for performance put tool in the context of the common workflow in bioinformatics, including container technology and Galaxy. We are integrating and cross-linking the core product of the Platform (bio.tools, BioContainers and OpenEBench) to other ELIXIR resources, such a the training resource . 17,247 tool 23,748 tool 8,982 tool 7,851 tool Services offered : search the registry of software tool and data resource for life sciences. : browse the list of software you can run on any operating system. : browse tool for benchmarking and monitoring software. : analyse your data with more than 2500 tools, visualisation and 200 reference genomes. : a new registry for life science workflows. What the Platform doe Helps life scientist find, deploy and benchmark software tools, including workflows. Helps software provider and developer better describe and develop software tool and integrate them into workflows. To achieve these goal the Platform is split into four tasks: 1. Packaging containerisation and deployment Leaders: Salva Capella-Gutierrez (ELIXIR Spain), Bjrn Grning (ELIXIR Germany) Goals: To maintain and improve the infrastructure (Yasset Perez/Bjrn Grning/Olivier Sallou). To develop an integrated Tools Platform ecosystem (Bjrn Grning/ Piotr Jaroslaw Chmura). To foster and evolve community participation and community workflow (Frederik Coppens /Herv Mnager). 2. Performance benchmarking and technical monitoring Leaders:Salvador Capella-Gutierrez (ELIXIR Spain), Josep Ll. Gelpi (ELIXIR Spain) Goals: To establish, consolidate and extend the core ELIXIR Service for benchmarking. To lower the benchmarking startup hurdle. To provide basic test of tool operability. To alleviate re-implementation of abstractable workflows. 3. Registry of bioinformatics tool Information and identifier Leader: Piotr Jaroslaw Chmura (ELIXIR Denmark) Goals: To establish a network of thematic editor to improve and through engaging with scientific expertise via ELIXIR Communities and ELIXIR Nodes. To develop tooling for domain-specific view for communities. 4. Software best practice Leaders: Mateusz Kuzak (ELIXIR Netherlands), Allegra Via (ELIXIR Italy), Fotis Psomopoulos (ELIXIR Greece) Goals: To develop specific guideline to help software developer to adopt and comply with the . To train and promote software best practice and the 4OSS. Measure, recognise and visualise adoption (longer term aim). See the . Leadership Salvador Capella (ELIXIR Spain) Platform Lead Bjrn Grning (ELIXIR Germany) Platform Lead Herv Menager (ELIXIR France) Platform Lead Jonathan Tedds (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Coordinator Mihail Anton (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Liaison Find out more Contact tools-exco [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the Platform's work. The Platform is involved in outreach through workshop and international conferences. See 'Related events' below or the for upcoming events. View the list of . Ison J, Ienasescu H, Chmura P, et al. The bio.tools registry of software tool and data resource for the life sciences. Genome Biol. 2019;20(1):164. Published 2019 Aug 12. Altenhoff AM, Garrayo-Ventas J, Cosentino S, et al. The Quest for Orthologs benchmark service and consensus call in 2020. Nucleic Acids Res. 2020;48(W1):W538-W545. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Compute Platform The ELIXIR Compute Platform wa established in 2015 to build and integrate cloud, compute, storage and access service for the life-science research community. Today, thousand of science laboratory across the world generate massive amount of data that they make available to collaborator directly or place in public archive for open access. In this situation, the traditional method of a researcher downloading and analysing data locally is no longer viable due to both the data size and scope of the analysis activities. The data need to be managed a a federation, where data provider work a a single infrastructure providing mechanism where researcher can bring their analysis to where the data is located. The ELIXIR Compute Platform infrastructure will allow life scientist to easily access, share and analyse data from different source across Europe. The objective is to combine all component of the ELIXIR Compute service into a seamless workflow. A researcher may use the ELIXIR Authorisation and Authentication service to securely create a scientific software analysis environment, and use the environment to access large biological data resource stored in a cloud. Services offered Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure (AAI) Provides a user access and identity management service for academia and industry. Allows user to consolidate their different online identity (university ID, Google ID, ORCID ID) into one identity. For accessing sensitive data, it provides REMS (Resource Entitlement Management System), an electronic tool where a researcher need to apply for approval by the resource provider. To start using the service, see the or email aai-contact [at] elixir-europe.org. What the Platform doe Develops service in three areas: authentication and authorisation, storage and data transfer, and cloud and computing resource (see below). Gathers requirement from the ELIXIR community and pass them to existing service provided by the and their partners, and by the European e-Infrastructures (i.e. , , , , ). This ensures the service are relevant to ELIXIR community. Integrates Compute Platform service into the e-Infrastructure services, so the Platform service are available to the European e-Infrastructure community. Combines ELIXIR Compute service into a seamless workflow using the ELIXIR Authorisation and Authentication Infrastructure (AAI). This enables you to access all service with just one sign-in. Works with to ensure the Platform's service fit the need of specific life science domains. Work Package 1.Platform Management and Coordination Leaders:Juha Trnroos (ELIXIR-FI), Harald Wagener (ELIXIR-DE)and Jana Broncova(ELIXIR-CZ) Goal:To provide the overall project management and coordination of the activity of ELIXIR Compute Platform. Activities: Aligningthe ELIXIR Compute Platform to complemenatry European project and intiatives. Ensuring strategic overisght of the Compute Platform activites during the 2024-2026 period. Hosting annual face-to-face event and coordinating monthly Platform calls. Addressing sustainability and dissemination activites of the Platform. Work Package2.Advanced Service Access Control Leaders:Dominik F. Bucik (ELIXIR-CZ) andAino-Riikka Corell (ELIXIR-FI) Goal:To further develop the (LS-AAI)serviceto increase it capability for adanced service access control needs, such a for accessing sensitive data. Activities: Developing advanced serviceauthentication mechanisms. Aligning and engaging with standard such a . Working on improving authorization mechanism across distributed infrastructures. Boosting community engagement and improving user experience. Developing LS-AAI training and outreach for advanced service access control. Work Package3. Protected access to sensitive data for analysis Leaders:Stefan Negru (ELIXIR-FI) and Sven Twardziok (ELIXIR-DE) Goal: To help align approach and technology across ELIXIR for accessing and processing sensitive data. Activities: Breaking down sensitive data access a a process to best understand the general workflow across ELIXIR Nodes using use cases. Engaging with the EOSC ENTRUST project which is focused on sensitive data and trusted research environments. Providingreference implementation of protected access to sensitive data includingcommon step and services. Developing guidance and outreach for ELIXIR member looking for support on protected access to sensitive data for analysis. Work Package 4. Multi Cloud Infrastructure Deployment Leaders:Viktria Spiakov (ELIXIR-CZ), Alexander Kanitz (ELIXIR-CH), and Ivar Janmaat (ELIXIR-NL) Goal: To further develop anELIXIR-wide federated hybrid- and multicloud-ready set of package consisting of various GA4GH-compatible backend microservices deployed across the ELIXIR Nodes, and a micro-frontend-based web portal to enable end user to operationalise the platform. Activities: Developingand expanding Software Development Kit (SDK) use case portfolio. Begin operationalisation of theELIXIR Cloud throughthe deployment of centralised and federated ELIXIR Cloud SDK service component across different ELIXIR Nodes. Development of policies, documentation and outreach activites related to ELIXIR Cloud. Work Package 5.Sustainability, Accounting and Provenance for Federated Analytics Leaders:Michael R. Crusoe (ELIXIR-DE),Thanasis Vergoulis (ELIXIR-GR), and Paul De Geest (ELIXIR-BE). Goal:To identify best practice in ELIXIR Communities, Nodes and project in the reporting of resource (facilities, services) used to lay the groundwork for billing or other financial accounting of service (within or between institutions, and eventually across borders). The WP will identify automated, lightweight solution which are FAIR in practice in order to track provenance. Activities: Developing a live dashboard of ELIXIR Computing Providers aiding compute resource findability. Gather use case of provenance consumption and production by infrastructure such a Galaxy BE. Guided byuse cases, devloping a framework for monitoring and reporting resource usage in research compute systems. Running workshop to carry out necessary stakeholder engagement and community alignment on outputs. Commissioned Services The Compute Platform is involved ina number of short-term, technical project called. These are currently: For completed study see the . Leadership Ludek Matyska (ELIXIR Czech Republic) Platform Lead Jana Broncova (ELIXIR Czech Republic) Platform Lead Juha Trnroos (ELIXIR Finland) Platform Lead Harald Wagener (ELIXIR Germany) Platform Lead Jonathan Tedds (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Coordinator Gavin Farrell (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Officer Find out more Contact: if you'd like to know more about the Platform's work please email: compute-exco [at] elixir-europe.org. (updated 2020) View the . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Interoperability Platform The goal of the Interoperability Platform is to help people and machine to discover, access, integrate and analyse biological data. It encourages the life science community to adopt standardised file formats, metadata, vocabulary and identifier and work internationally to achieve it goals. Platform highlight : a reviewed and selected by ELIXIR. What the Platform doe Join the Interoperability Platform group and it mailing list. Identifies and promotes interoperability best practice for data provider and data integrators. Delivers the interoperability service that underpin ELIXIR and . To achieve these goals, the Platform's workis split into four task spanning 2019-23: Task 1:Alignment of the Interoperability Platform FAIR Service Architecture Framework with the Data Platform, Communitiesand ELIXIR Projects Leaders:Tony Burdett (EMBL-EBI) andSusanna-Assunta Sansone(ELIXIR-UK) Goal: To better align the ELIXIR Data and the Interoperability Platforms activity with the ELIXIR Communities need by creatinga FAIR Services Architecture Framework. Activities: Defining and promoting the adoption of a set of Interoperability Platform flagship service from existing and newessential to the definition, execution and dissemination of interoperability story Coordinatingwith the via webinars to support the promotion, adoption andimplementation of EIP flagship service in the . Defining, soliciting and developing interoperability storiesrepresenting different ELIXIR Communitiessupported by a set of common Interoperability Platform flagship services. Aligning and disseminatinginteroperability story for inclusion in the EIP Knowledge Hub fromTask 2 of the Interoperability Platform. The FAIR Services Architecture Framework The FAIR Services Architecture Framework demonstrating impact, benefit and action from which interoperability storiesmust contain element of each of the three layer a defined in Task 1. Task 2:An EIP KnowledgeHub Leader:Fabio Liberante(Platform Coordinator, ELIXIR Hub) Goal:To establish an ELIXIR Interoperability PlatformKnowledgeHubas a systematic approach to collectand disseminate knowledge. Activities: Developing the EIP Knowledge Hub using the ELIXIR and the a key component of the knowledge dissemination platform. Developing aKnowledgeHub for common practitioner working in research data management such a data stewards, developer and researcher requiring knowledge of FAIR and interoperability best practices. Developing aKnowledgeHub foradavanced practitioner working in data stewardship, infrastructure and tool development that are developing ontologies, standard and FAIR services. Related link : Schema.org extension tailored for life science concepts. : a resolving system to reference data in both a location-independent and resource-dependent manner. Get involved - : a repository for biomedical ontology that aim to provide a single point of access to the latest ontology versions. : curated, informative and educational resource on data and metadatastandards, inter-related todatabasesand datapolicies. : Common Workflow Language to aid interoperable software development. Commissioned Services The Interoperability Platform is involved ina number of short-term, technical project called. These are currently: For completed study see the . Leadership Susanna-Assunta Sansone (ELIXIR UK) Chris Evelo (ELIXIR Netherlands) Tony Burdett (EMBL-EBI) Fabio Liberante (Platform Coordinator, ELIXIR Hub) Clare Garrard (Platform Officer, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact Fabio Liberante (fabio.liberante [at] elixir-europe.org). with our online form. , where you can find the Platform's plan for the next five years. provided by ELIXIR Nodes. Search for BYOD workshop in the or ELIXIR's . Learn more about the FAIR Principles: - the ELIXIR Dutch node website. Wilkinson, M. D. et al. . Sci. Data 3:160018 doi: 10.1038/sdata.2016.18 (2016) (2016-19) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Training Platform The ELIXIR Training Platform wa established todevelopa training community that span all ELIXIR member state (see the ). It aim to strengthen national training programmes, grow bioinformatics training capacity and competence across Europe, and empower researcher to use ELIXIR's . The current programme build on the work established during the . The Platform: establishes and implement best practice in bioinformatics training through a training Toolkit support training provider across Europe in creating and delivering training for developers, researcher and trainer build a sustainable training infrastructure Since 2015 1,500+ training event 38,700+ people trained 60+ country 4,700+ day of training Training Platform users: The Training Platform work with both service consumer and service providers, and offer training appropriate to different level of expertise. Services offered by the Training Platform , the training registry for the ELIXIR community For trainers, the portal offer an environment for sharing material and event information. For trainees, it offer a gateway to find relevant training event and resources, and to perform specific, guided analysis task via customised training workflows. For ELIXIR Nodes, TeSS provides opportunity to promote training event and news, and to contribute to a growing catalogue of materials. Search TeSS (opens TeSS in a new tab): Search TeSS () For ELIXIR Training Coordinators, the database streamlines data collection, storage, and visualisation of ELIXIR Training quality and impact data. For anyone interested in ELIXIR training, it let you browse and view ELIXIR-wide training summary and interact with dynamic reports. The ELIXIR-SI eLearning Platform EeLP() For trainer and trainees: EeLP provides a single access point to all necessary information, dynamic educational resources, tool and service for any training event, including access to registration, compute infrastructure (HPC), exams, comms and certificates. What the Training Platform doe During the period 2019-23 the Platform ha four tasks. The below task are specifically describing goal and activity during 2022-2023. Task 1. Training Toolkit Goals: To publishand adopta training toolkit To expand the training toolkitand ass the trainingimpact Activities: Creatinga set of dedicated page for the Handbook on and populating them with materials, link and appropriate reference to all ELIXIR training best practice and guidelines. Collecting all statistic and feedback data from ELIXIR Nodes through a dedicated platform; publishinga report presenting long-term impact within ELIXIR, including the impact on ELIXIR services, Platforms and Communities. Task 2. Gap analysis, training material development and training delivery Leaders: Fotis Psomopoulos (ELIXIR-GR), Eija Korpelainen (ELIXIR-FI), Mihail Anton (ELIXIR-SE), Jessica Lindvall (ELIXIR-SE), Ana Portugal Melo (ELIXIR-PT), Loredana Le Pera (ELIXIR-IT) and Alexia Cardona (ELIXIR-UK) Goals: To analyse training gapsin ELIXIR Platforms, Communities, Nodes and Industry To developtraining material for identified gap and for ELIXIR Services, Resources, and Communities To scaleup ELIXIR training To define ELIXIR Core Training Resources Activities: Identifying the training need for each Platform and Communitythrough dedicated survey and in a limited number of dedicated meeting between the Training Platform and representative of the Platforms, Communities, Nodes, resource provider and industry. Organizinghackathons to gather the expert in the identified topic and produce training material together. These material will be available to the Nodes/Platforms/Communities, exposed in TeSS, and their usage promoted in dedicated course and in Train-the-Trainer courses. Training trainer in delivering the content of the training materials, through the staff exchange programme. Collaboratingwith the other Platforms, Communities and Nodes to co-organise the course that need to be rolled-out. The Training Platform will launch a competitive call for Platforms, Communities and Nodes to select topic for a limited number of training courses. In addition, the Platform will support running of new or mature course which are organised and funded by other Platforms, Communities or Nodes. Task 3. Training Technical Infrastructure Goals: To maintain theTeSS registry To prepare future technical development of TeSS To expand the e-learning portfolio of the ELIXIR Platform To integrate the ELIXIR Training Handbook in TeSS Activities: Performing routine maintenance of TeSS, maintenance of integration between TeSS and other registry (bio.tools, FAIRsharing, Impact platform, etc.), maintenance of integration between TeSS and third-party services; continued community work on interoperable training specification with the Bioschemas group. Guiding new developmentsfrom the feedback from the Training Coordinators, a well a from TeSS user participating in a series of UX activity to be launched in the last year of EXCELERATE and continued in the period 2020-2023. Tagging e-learning activity of the Nodesas "e-learning" in TeSS. Creating adedicated section in TeSSto make these e-learning activity visible and findable in TeSS. Developping TeSSto integrate the ELIXIR Training Handbook. Task 4. Training Capacity Building Leaders: Allegra Via (ELIXIR-IT). Patricia Palagi (ELIXIR-CH), Celia van Gelder (ELIXIR-NL) and Katharina Heil (ELIXIR-Hub) Goals: To planthe Train the trainer event () To identify training need within management and operation Activities: Organisingthe Train the trainer(TtT) events.ELIXIR trainer will volunteer to teach in the TtT events. The Nodes involved in the task will contribute to the development of the training materials. We will ensure that criterion for TtT certification are aligned with those developed in Task 2, and TtT material become part of ELIXIR recommended resources. Forming aworking groupto design and implement need analysis, and be responsible for producing the assessment and recommendation reports. Commissioned Services ELIXIR fund a number of short-term technical project called that inform future service development, drive standard adoption and engage the Nodes. The Training Platform is involved in the following projects: For completed project see the . Leadership Jessica Lindvall jessica.lindvall [at] nbis.se (ELIXIR Sweden) Fotis Psomopoulos fpsom [at] certh.gr (ELIXIR Greece) Eva Alloza eva.alloza [at] bsc.es (ELIXIR Spain) Katharina Heil (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Coordinator Mihail Anton (ELIXIR Hub) Platform Liaison Find out more of this site for training event and workshops. , including who your local Training Coordinators are. of the ELIXIR Training Platform with external bodies. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Communities ELIXIR Communities are group of expert across and externally that represent a scientific or technological theme, and drive the development of standards, services, and training in and across ELIXIR. They provide an opportunity to be a part of a wide-reaching network, and also offer a mechanism for long-term collaboration with other ESFRIs and large-scale initiatives. Discover ELIXIR Communities The tell you what a Community is, who can join, what the benefit are, and how Communities are structured. It also contains link to key document related to ELIXIR Communities, and explains the responsibility and benefit of Community membership. Helps to understand the 3D structure of macromolecule like protein and DNA. Aims to help u understand biodiversity, and how it responds to changing environmental pressures. Develops long-term strategy for managing and accessing sensitive human data. Aims to help u understand the effect of food choice on human health. Fosters a Galaxy community in Europe, together with Galaxy resource and training. Aims to make it easier to detect, annotate and interpret human Copy Number Variations (hCNVs). Develops standards, tool and resource to help identify and characterise IDPs. Provides the resources, analysis tool and infrastructure to help metabolite identification. Helps the development of tailor-made microbe and biological systems. Promotes standards, training, and other resource for microbiome research across all biomes. Develops an infrastructure to facilitate genotype-phenotype analysis for crop and tree species. Develops and maintains sustainable proteomics tool and data resources. Supports the development of new therapy for rare diseases. Brings together RDM expert to coordinate and promote the use of RDM resources. Identifies and address challenge in single-cell and spatial omics. Aims to make system biology modelling a central pillar of research in biology. Supports the integration of standards, tool and resource to aid toxicology research projects. The Hub Communities Team Communities are supported by the ELIXIR Hub through the Programme Manager for Communities, and a Science/Technical Officer for Communities. Katharina Heil Programme Manager for Communities katharina.heil [at] elixir-europe.org Clare Garrard Scientific Officer for Communities clare.garrard [at] elixir-europe.org Former Communities Marine Metagenomics: this ha now become the . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here 3D-BioInfo Community Structural bioinformatics provides method and tool to analyse, predict, archive and validate the three-dimensional (3D) structure data of biomacromolecules such a proteins, RNA or DNA. The specific 3D shape of macromolecule allow them to perform many function within cells. Understanding their structure is therefore crucial for understanding the interaction and function of cells, which in turn open up the potential for innovation in biotechnology and drug development. The 2023 3D BioInfo Community F2F/virtual Community meeting is coming up. More information can be found and on this . The next3D-BioInfo Webinar will be on 7 May 2024 link A complete list of previous webinars is available . The recent development in experimental method to determine the structure of a macromolecule have led to rapid expansion of structural data, both quantitatively and qualitatively. European structural bioinformatics group - member of the ELIXIR 3D-BioInfo Community - played a crucial role in validating these data and developed various tool for working with them. ELIXIR Nodes are responsible for the development and sustainable operation of a number of tool used by the structural biology community, including three : PDBe, CATH and InterPro. The Communities white paper wa published in April 2020, . Christine Orengo, Structural and Molecular Biology Department, UCL, UK lead the Community together with five Task lead (see below). There are five main area of interest for the 3D-BioInfo Community: Activity 1: To develop the infrastructure for FAIR structural and functional annotation There are many small data resource that derive added value annotation from the and the . However, a lack of data standard and uniform data access mechanism significantly reduce the impact of these specialist data resources. To address this, the Community will: Support the development of the a community-driven data resource for structural and functional annotation that place structural data in it biological context. PDBe-KB will increase the visibility and interoperability of niche data resource and enable comparison between specific type of annotation obtained from different software tools. Establish data standard for different type of annotation and integration of these annotation using a community-driven data exchange format and a uniform data access mechanism. Develop a network of 3D-Beacons by integrating annotation from PDBe-KB with structural model from existing European and other international archives. This will lead to increased coverage of structure data in the sequence space. This activity is coordinated by Sameer Velankar, Protein Data Bank in Europe, EMBL, UK. Activity 2: To create open resource for sharing, integrating and benchmarking software tool for modelling the proteome in 3D The 3D-BioInfo Community will: Develop tool to allow the scientific community to extend the current information on protein 3D structures, interaction and assembly and extract knowledge from it. The initial focus will be on software tool and community-wide benchmarking for modelling 3D structure and conformational flexibility of protein and protein assemblies. Extend the content of ELIXIR benchmarking platform, , by adding software tool for structural biology. It will also include workflow and guideline for modelling 3D structure of proteins, protein complex and assemblies, based on known structure available in the PDBe. Develop tool for evaluating the quality of 3D model of protein and protein complexes. This will improve the evaluation of the molecular modelling methods, and help developer optimize their procedures. Develop standard quality measure and evaluation protocol for 3D structure modelling tools, building on the work by the and communities. Develop a one-stop-shop of benchmark datasets for testing and evaluating method for generating scoring, and ranking model of protein complexes. The wide research community will also be invited to contribute with their own datasets, following well-defined community-approved standards. Develop necessary infrastructure for managing the (automated registration and submission, tool for accessing and navigating target information, predicted model and results). Develop a knowledge portal providing access to workflow and guideline to various tool for modelling conformational flexibility. This activity is coordinated by Shoshana Wodak, VIB-VUB, CSB, BE. Activity 3: To help develop model for protein-ligand interaction In silico technology for modeling the interaction of protein with drug-like compound (ligands) can speed up the discovery of new medication and reduce the cost of the drug discovery process. To support these approach the 3D-BioInfo Community will: Develop benchmark datasets for assessing Structure-Based Drug Design (SBDD) tool on a large-scale and under well-defined FAIR conditions, complementing effort such a the . Quantify different property (e.g. charge, polarity, size, flexibility of the binding site and ligand etc.) for each entry in the benchmark, to enable evaluation of SBDD tool a a function of these properties. Develop link to other database and standardise the retrieved data to complement the information provided for each protein-ligand complex in the benchmark sets. Add information on the non-bioactive conformation of ligand to standardise the comparison of docking calculation starting from such geometries. Add information on experimentally determined non-active compound to be used a negative example for testing virtual screening procedures. Make all benchmark datasets, benchmark workflows, and benchmarking result publicly available via the OpenEBench platform. Developing tutorial and other training material for structure-based modelling and interpretation of their results. This activity is coordinated by Vincent Zoete, Department of Oncology, SIB, CH. Activity 4: To develop tool to Describe, Analyse, Annotate, and Predict Nucleic Acid Structures The ultimate goal in this area is to encourage the development and use of software tool to describe, analyse, annotate, and predict nucleic acid (NA) structures. In particular the Community will: Catalogue software tool for building nucleic acid model based on their sequence alone a well a for modelling their 3D structure using experimental data, and facilitate the integration of these tools. Coordinate the unification of the existing NA geometry standard and formulate specification for missing standards. Develop benchmark dataset for evaluating the quality of predicted or experimentally determined NA structures. Continuously update the catalogue of software tool developed by the RNA tool and software consortium, and extend these tool to DNA structures. Closely collaborate with the experimental structural biology community (Instruct-ERIC and EuroBioImaging) to ensure consistency across the different research communities. This activity is coordinated by Bohdan Schneider, Institute of Biotechnology, CAS, CZ. Activity 5: To establish a Biostudies database of protein engineering result Fully predictable engineering of protein to adopt desired structure and to exhibit desired function &/or physical property remains a key challenge. This activity seek to collect data on the result of different approach to protein engineering and design, with the underlying philosophy that we can learn a much from design that fail a we can from design that succeed. To achieve this goal, we will establish a Biostudies database a a focal point where researcher can deposit such data. We will establish a resource in which commonly used tool that facilitate protein engineering are collected, alongside user feedback and comments. We will lead activity to facilitate the cross-fertilisation of idea in the area of protein engineering and design, with particular emphasis on the support of networking by junior scientists. The protein engineering activity is unique in involving wet-lab scientist alongside computational biologists. Including wet-lab practitioner facilitates a deep and meaningful assessment of database content. The protein engineering activity thus productively interacts with the other 3DBio activities. This activity is coordinated by Lynne Regan, Centre for Synthetic and Systems Biology, UoE, UK. Commissioned Services ELIXIR fund a number of short-term technical project called that inform future service development, drive standard adoption and engage ELIXIR Nodes. The 3D-BioInfo Community completed the following project in November 2019: Leadership The Community is led by a seven-person Executive Committee: Christine Orengo c.orengo [at] ucl.ac.uk (ELIXIR UK) Sameer Velankar sameer [at] ebi.ac.uk (EMBL-EBI) Shoshana Wodak shoshana.wodak [at] vub.vib.be (ELIXIR Belgium) Vincent Zoete incent.zoete [at] unil.ch (ELIXIR Switzerland) Bohdan Schneider bohdan.schneider [at] ibt.cas.cz (ELIXIR Czech) Lynne Regan lynne.regan [at] ed.ac.uk (ELIXIR UK) Clare Garrard clare.garrard [at] elixir-europe.org (Scientific Officer - Communities, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact 3d-bioinfo-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you would like to know more about the Community's work. presented at the ELIXIR All Hands meeting 2019. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Biodiversity Community Biodiversity represents the full spectrum of organism on Earth, at population, community, and ecosystem levels. The loss and decline of biological diversity are recognised by scientist and the public a a critical challenge for humankind to address. Addressing this global crisis requires knowledge of the diversity of life on Earth, how that diversity function and interacts, and how it responds to changing environmental pressures. This is why research that transforms our understanding of the variety of life on Earth, at phenotypic or genetic levels, is so important. Current biodiversity data infrastructure and resource are a testament to the long-standing recognition by multiple stakeholder of their importance. However, their heterogeneity pose many challenges. These challenge are both technical, in term of data analysis and data integration, and at the level of the scientific community, which face a complex landscape of tool and data that can be difficult to navigate. Building connection across the many infrastructure and service active in biodiversity research is key to overcoming these challenges. These endeavour support the broader ELIXIR framework of striving to bring data science solution to the priority area of Biodiversity, Food Security, and Pathogens. For more information, have a look at the ,as well a the published . Goals of the Community To enhance ELIXIRs network of network in helping to deliver connected data for biodiversity research To expose and augment relevant ELIXIR service and infrastructure contributing to effort to catalogue, protect, and restore biodiversity and ecosystem services. To support ELIXIR Nodes in expanding their activity related to biodiversity data and research and relevant for the new programme priority areas. To communicate ELIXIR activity and service relevant to the biodiversity domain to broader audience including scientists, policy makers, and the general public. To support the development of standard and promote best practice in biodiversity research Support and promote the development and use of global standards, formats, guidelines, and ontology across the domain. Support the development of best practice in Research Data Management for biodiversity research, with a focus on molecular data but not excluding other areas. Collect, expose, and maintain, a dedicated RDMkit domain for biodiversity collating relevant documentation and tool that support good practice in research data management. To promote tool and workflow that facilitate reliable and reproducible biodiversity data analysis Identify, curate, and promote high-quality biodiversity-related analysis tool and service to the wider community of users. Connect developer with data-generation initiative and data user to fuel synergy that deliver tool and workflow serving their needs. Maintain curated catalogue of FAIR biodiversity-focused tool and workflow in Bio.tools and WorkflowHub. To enhance biodiversity database/infrastructure usability and interoperability Identify and act on opportunity to develop technical solution that improve connectivity amongst heterogenous biodiversity data infrastructure and resources. Foster collaborative exchange between user and provider of biodiversity-related databases/infrastructures to improve usability and functionality. Promote usage of persistent identifier across the domain, including taxonomy a the backbone of biodiversity knowledge. To foster knowledge transfer in biodiversity data management and analysis Support community-driven skill sharing focused on understanding how to benefit from the use of available standard and best practices. Connect developer of tools/workflows/databases with user community through training that responds to changing technology and associated services. Expose collection of training materials, for example through TeSS, the Galaxy Training Network, and RDMkit. Leadership Josephine Burgin (EMBL-EBI) Toni Gabaldon (BSC) Robert Waterhouse (SIB) Physilia Chua (Senior Science Officer, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact: biodiversity-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org or biodiversity [at] elixir-europe.org. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Federated Human Data Community Vision:Our vision for the ELIXIR Federated Human Data (FHD) Community is to create a federated ecosystem of interoperable service that enables population scale genomic and biomolecular data to be accessible across international borders, accelerating research, and improving the health of individual resident across Europe. Together, the component of FHDprovide a framework for the secure submission, archival, dissemination, and analysis of sensitivehuman data across Europe, and wider. Achieving this vision:FHD provides coordination across a number of EU, ELIXIR Node, and internationally fundedprojects that drive towards delivery ofthe shared vision. The overall objective is to provide a suite of interoperable service to deliver the vision, focussing on the interface that are required for the federated infrastructure rather than any single technology. Figure 1: The shared vision of the ELIXIR Federated Human Data Community is to operate a Europe-wide network of sensitive data archive that are able to function interoperably based on common interface rather than any single technological solution. Activities ELIXIR Node deployment across the FHD infrastructure Many ELIXIR Nodes provide local, regional, and/or national infrastructure component to support the implementation of the shared vision for ELIXIR FHD. Below we provide link to these ELIXIR Node-specific FHD websites: ELIXIR FHD regular activity As the work towards achieving the vision of ELIXIR FHD is supported by many different funding stream the regular FHD meeting provide a forum for the presentation, discussion, and coordination across these, enabling the progress towards the vision to be tracked, documented, and discussed at regular intervals. A FHD community meeting is held monthly and is open to ELIXIR member and ELIXIR FHD Community partners: ELIXIR FHD Community call First Tuesday of the month, 2pm CEST Thestanding agendafor this meeting consists of: presentation(s) from the ELIXIR Nodes on progress towards the vision of FHD; update from FHD-related projects, such a the Federated EGA and European Genomic Data Infrastructure (GDI) projects; invited presentation from FHD-related project delivering infrastructure component across the ELIXIR Nodes; discussion of community topic of interest. Mailing list:fhd [at] elixir-europe.org ELIXIR coordinated fundedprojects contributing to FHD Leadership Jordi Rambla (ELIXIR Spain) Dylan Spalding (ELIXIR Finland) Thomas Keane (EMBL-EBI) Giselle Kerry (ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact Serena Scollen (serena.scollen [at] elixir-europe.org) to learn how you can get involved with ELIXIR's work with human data, and how this work can help you. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Food and Nutrition Community Misguided food choice can lead to a myriad of health complications, the most widely known being obesity, type II diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer. To better understand the effect of food choice on health, larger amount of more varied data are required. These data include geno- and phenotyping data from human nutritional studies, but also personal health, behavioural and socio-economic data. Using this data would enable researcher to develop product and intervention to reduce the risk of disease, and also the environmental impact of our food system. However, food and nutrition research in Europe is still fragmented. Improved ontologies, databases, data harmonisation and way to share the data are still needed. Collaboration across discipline ha also become imperative, requiring a mixed network of experts, such a dieticians, nutritionists, bioinformaticians, system biologist and consumer scientists. Goals of the Community The ELIXIR Food and Nutrition Community aim to: Standardise food and nutrition data to ensure interoperability: Create standardised questionnaires, develop ontology to make data interoperable, develop tool to help standardise data and metadata, and offer training in FAIR data principles, data stewardship and data annotation. Make more data available: Make data findable and accessible, including aspect such as: formatting standards, allowing for connectivity between structured datasets, encouraging rich meta-data capture, ensuring ethical data collection and access, and allowing query and tool to find datasets. Make data easier to reuse: Integrate food and nutrition data (with a specific focus on metabolomics and microbiomics), align analysis software with existing ELIXIR solution (e.g. microbiomics/GALAXY and similar dataflows), interact with consumer and offer training on data reuse. Engage with advocacy and support training: Raise awareness and encourage researcher and governmental organisation to publish (raw or processed) data, facilitate training around the FAIR principle to raise awareness within and beyond the ELIXIR Food and NutritionCommunity. Drive tool and service availability and interoperability: facilitate access to available tool and service to analyse, visualize and manipulate F&N related data, integrate public and private repository to allow easy data transfer for analysis and processing, including the possibility for chained data analysis. Network with relevant stakeholders: interact with consumers, policy makers, educators, industry, hospitals, patient and other researchers, align with the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) strategy for sustainable long term data reuse. See the for an overview of the expected outcome of this Community. Leadership Jildau Bouwmann (ELIXIR Netherlands) Meike Bunger (ELIXIR Netherlands) Frdrique Lisacek (ELIXIR Switzerland) Jan Stanstrup (ELIXIR Denmark) Clare Garrard (Scientific Officer - Communities, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact clare.garrard [at] elixir-europe.org or food-nutrition-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you would like to know more about the Community's work. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Galaxy Community Galaxy is an open, web-based platform for data-intensive computational research that span beyond the life sciences. It allows researcher without programming experience to run analysis workflow on their data, share their results, and enable others to repeat the same analyses. Galaxy make science reproducible, facilitates sharing of data and results, and remove the hassle of installing software tool from users. ELIXIR's Galaxy Community evolved from it , which wa established in 2015 to monitor and foster the use of Galaxy in ELIXIR. Today the overall goal of the Community is to foster the use and development of Galaxy, focusing on making it easier to import data into Galaxy instances, helping to develop and share Galaxy tool and workflows, and increasing the provision of Galaxy training. Goals of the Community To grow the European network of Galaxy community An increasing number of scientific sub-communities have grown up to address specific task using Galaxy. The collaborative portal (W4M) and , for example, are dedicated to handling metabolomic data and feature in the work of the ELIXIR . The Galaxy Community's goal is to foster interaction between the domain-specific Galaxy communities, to set up common analysis workflow and standards, and to provide training in these. The Galaxy Community act a an umbrella organisation for many regional community in France, UK, Netherlands, Czech Republic, etc., and support other group in forming such groups. To grow the global network of Galaxy community through partnership, contribution and leadership The Galaxy network is a globe-spanning, highly impactful digital research infrastructure, used by hundred of thousand of researcher across all continents. This infrastructure is built and sustainably supported through the effort of hundred of contributor and resource providers. Mutual partnership and agreement between global Galaxy provider are necessary for the open, rapid and continuous development of Galaxy functionalities, tools, workflow and all the other content, which in turn benefit all participating provider and communities. Therefore an important goal of the ELIXIR Galaxy Community is the growth of the global Galaxy community, through leadership, governance, content development, platform sustainability, shared resources, community fostering, and training. This goal can be realised through close coordination and partnership with existing Galaxy provider peer including the US, Australia and South Africa; and then through broader networking and leadership globally. Galaxy play a crucial role in different EOSC consortium (, , ), supporting a wide variety of use case across different disciplines; and will continue participating in different European initiatives. The usegalaxy.* server across Europe and the world are offering access to , workflow and national, a well a international compute resources. To extend Galaxy training provision ELIXIR-organised workshop are having a fundamental impact in raising the profile of the among global bioinformatics training efforts. This is a training material repository open for everyone to use and contribute to, providing slides, tutorial and other material on using, developing and administering Galaxy. We aim to keep these material up-to-date and expand them to cover further area of the life sciences. See the for an overview of the topic addressed and other analytics. usegalaxy.* will offer Training Infrastructure a a Service (TIaaS) read some from the instructors. We will continue promoting the use of these resources, including information about where these training can be run, trainers, needed tool and virtual Galaxy images. This will be done in collaboration with the , and Platforms. To create a Galaxy cloud infrastructure across Europe The growing amount of data generated in life science, and the large number of Galaxy communities, requires increasing compute and storage resources. Our aim is to facilitate access to a broad portfolio of analysis workflow for European researchers. Some ELIXIR Nodes already offer a centralised instance of Galaxy (, , , , ). Since 2018, in collaboration with the US Galaxy Team, we are building a network of Galaxy instance worldwide (usegalaxy.*), guaranteeing a base level of compatibility and supporting all of the Galaxy Training Network. See the for more information. We also want to facilitate the usage of Galaxy on top of the different ELIXIR clouds, e.g. by using a a single entry point for users; or through technology and service supporting the deployment of Galaxy on federated cloud infrastructure such a . ELIXIR-Italy launched the service , hosted at the ReCaS-Bari datacenter, providing cloud resource for the deployment of on-demand Galaxy instances. To make it easier to access and transfer data Getting data from public database into a Galaxy instance is the first step for most analyses. However, identifying file and their URLs and uploading these file in a computational environment is not easy for user with limited technical skills. We aim to facilitate uploading data into Galaxy instance from the such a , , , and , and also from more specialised database such a , and . To optimise data access and integration in Galaxy we need to standardise and automate data transfer. We are working closely with the worldwide Galaxy community to create and maintain shared storage of common reference data for numerous genomes, to be used across Galaxy instance via the CVMFS technology. This facilitates the inclusion of new reference genome to any Galaxy instance, immediately providing index and annotations. To improve tool and data integration Currently, a data-to-tools approach is prevalent in data analysis. This involves copying a large volume of data to a computing environment for analysis. To avoid this, we propose a tools-to-data approach based on virtualization, such a , or . Galaxy already support , meaning that tool and workflow in Galaxy can run in isolated BioContainers. We aim to maintain, update and extend BioContainers integration to keep the resource relevant and up-to-date. We also aim to improve the accessibility of tool and data, allowing user to easily combine public and private storage and compute cloud services. To promote FAIR principle in Galaxy The ELIXIR Galaxy Community will promote the use of Galaxy project that enhance the ness of Galaxy. These include (a repository of Galaxy tool and utilities) and (an online catalogue of the tool available on various Galaxy instances). We will promote the use of the ELIXIR Tools registry and work with bio.tools developer to integrate , and the Galaxy ToolShed more tightly into the registry. The Galaxy Community aim to work with the to annotate Galaxy object (histories, workflows, etc.) a standardised to facilitate sharing. Accomplishments Compute infrastructure The allows the distribution of job across different data centre in Europe. More information about the user statistic can be found on the of the European Galaxy Server and the . Integration with ELIXIR resource We enabled easy by using the . This wa achieved in close collaboration with the in ELIXIR. Galaxy workflow available in the can be run now directly on usegalaxy.eu. Training Galaxy training material is integrated and listed in , and is annotated with markup. Online training ha become more prominent since the COVID-19 pandemic started. The Galaxy community ha organised several massive online training and our experience and recommendation are gathered in this . . Training event are happening all the time, check the . Response to the COVID-19 pandemic Two webinar series have taken place since the spring of 2020: From early 2020 the Galaxy Community ha collaborated across the globe to provide tools, workflow and access to data related to COVID. All the news related to the latest COVID-19 data analysis is available in a collection of . The major achievement are: Genomics, Proteomics, Evolution, Cheminformatics and Protein-Protein Interaction analysis can be found at the . to the COVID-19 Data Portal through Galaxy. Collaboration with to visualise and offer result from variant analysis workflows. In 2021, an automated wa set up in response to the evolving pandemic. All the activity are summarised and periodically updated in this . Publications Baker D, van den Beek M, Blankenberg D, Bouvier D, Chilton J, et al. (2020) No more business a usual: Agile and effective response to emerging pathogen threat require open data and open analytics. PLOS Pathogens 16(8): e1008643. Gallardo-Alba C, Grning B, Serrano-Solano B (2021) A constructivist-based proposal for bioinformatics teaching practice during lockdown. PLOS Computational Biology 17(5): e1008922. Serrano-Solano B, Fll MC, Gallardo-Alba C, Erxleben A, Rasche H, et al. (2021) Fostering accessible online education using Galaxy a an e-learning platform. PLOS Computational Biology 17(5): e1008923. Rajczewski,A.T. et al. (2021) A rigorous evaluation of optimal peptide target for MS-based clinical diagnostics of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). Clinical Proteomics, 18, 15. Community Check the latest and . There are community-focussed event happening all year long, like , and the annual . The Galaxy community is very active and spread all over the world. Check how to become part of it in the following video: Commissioned Services The Galaxy Community ha been involved in a number of short-term, technical project called Commissioned Services. For a complete list of finished and ongoing Implementation Studies, see the . Leadership Bjrn Grning (ELIXIR Germany) Community co-lead Frederik Coppens (ELIXIR Belgium) Community co-lead Nicola Soranzo (ELIXIR UK) Community co-lead Mihail Anton (ELIXIR Hub) Community Liaison Find out more For Galaxy activity from 2015-18 see the . Publications: Doppelt-Azeroual, O., Mareuil, F., Deveaud, Kala, M., Soranzo, N., van den Beek, M., Grning, B., Ison, J. and Mnager, H. (2017). ReGaTE: Registration of Galaxy Tools in Elixir GigaScience, Contact galaxy-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org or galaxy-wg [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the Community's work. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Human Copy Number Variation Community Most human cell divide by mitosis, where one parent cell divide to produce two daughter cells. Just before a cell divide it make a copy of it own DNA, but this copy may not have the same gene sequence a the parent DNA. One gene, for example, may be copied twice into the new DNA, or not copied at all. This phenomenon is called Copy Number Variation (CNV). It is thought that these Copy Number Variations are vital for evolution, but they also play important role in disease. Despite the fact that Copy Number Variations are the most prevalent genetic mutation type, identifying and interpreting them is still a major challenge. The ELIXIR human Copy Number Variation (hCNV) Community aim to implement process to make the detection, annotation and interpretation of these variation easier. Goals of the Community To define optimal CNV detection pipeline The Community will use reference datasets to benchmark the existing tool for detecting hCNVs. The most sensitive, specific, reliable and rapid tool for each dataset will be identified. If no system is effective enough for some conditions, the hCNV partner will develop new tools. The Community will also optimize the selected tool pipeline to increase their performance on ELIXIR compute facilities, and develop guideline to help end-users use these tool to detect CNVs. These guideline will be available through the . To identify reference datasets for hCNV The Community will produce reference datasets of fully validated somatic and germline CNVs representing a wide range of sample type and experimental technologies. These reference material will enable the Community to evaluate and compare pipeline and/or Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, and can be used for quality assurance. The NGS technology are rapidly evolving and therefore the reference datasets will need to be regularly updated. To establish and define data exchange format International collaborative project require common standard to describe their results. This ensures efficient data aggregation and comparison. Although various international initiative are currently addressing this issue, no robust and exhaustive standard CNV annotation format ha emerged so far. To address this, the hCNV Community will establish a list of existing format used to describe CNVs, and develop recommended formats. If a few alternative format are frequently used, it will provide bioinformatics resource to convert data into the common data exchange format. This work will align with existing efforts, notably Work Streams and the . To create a process to facilitate the identification of patient with similar genotype and phenotype Because rare disease affect fewer than 1 in 2,000 people and a most mutation are private (i.e. restricted to a single family or small group), finding similar case at the clinical level is a challenge. Yet finding similar case is essential for clinical diagnosis and for identifying disease-causing genes. The hCNV Community will recommend standard way of describing rare disease and provide way to map various ontologies, medical terminologies, vocabulary and nomenclatures. This will enable cross query and the identification of similar patients. To develop innovative tool to detect, annotate and interpret CNV CNVs could involve large genomic region and encompass multiple genes. In addition, in recessive disease CNVs can alter one allele of a specific gene, while the second one could be altered by Short Nucleotide Variations (SNV). In many situations, it is thus difficult to identify the single or multiple gene whose alteration is directly associated with the patient's phenotype. Here, the hCNV community will develop innovative tool to annotate CNVs, facilitate their interpretation through a combinatorial approach, and help to pinpoint key gene in region of interest. To help make hCNV service and datasets FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) Various CNV national databases, ELIXIR Core Data Resources, and ELIXIR Deposition Databases are currently being developed by ELIXIR hCNV partners. In order to allow interoperability (including discovery), the FAIR principle (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) will be applied to those system to demonstrate the feasibility and utility of distributed CNV databases. The Community will use the and the database to demonstrate the benefit of using the FAIR data principle for CNV in diagnostic and research contexts. To disseminate knowledge and train researcher The Community will organise meeting to gather experts' point of view on it work, to gather feedback and to disseminate knowledge. It will also promote the ELIXIR hCNV community through participation in international consortia, such a GA4GH. Commissioned Services ELIXIR fund a number of short-term technical project called . The hCNV Community is leading: Leadership Michael Baudis (ELIXIR Switzerland) Krzysztof Poterlowicz (ELIXIR UK) Antonio Rausell (ELIXIR France) Giselle Kerry (Community Coordinator) (ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact giselle.kerry [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the community's work. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Intrinsically Disordered Proteins (IDP) Community Intrinsically Disordered Proteins (IDP) are protein containing region that lack a stable secondary or tertiary structure. These region are called 'Intrinsically Disordered Regions' (IDRs) and play a central role in cell regulation. They are also thought to be involved many human diseases, including cancer, Alzheimers and Parkinsons disease. IDPs are estimated to contain up to one hundred thousand interaction interface and a million site of post-translational modification. However, to date, only a small fraction of IDPs have been characterised. The major goal of the IDP Community is to support the development of standards, tool and resource to accelerate the identification, analysis and functional characterisation of IDPs. Given their therapeutic relevance, IDR-mediated interaction are now seen a potential drug targets. A better understanding of their structure and function will help in developing new strategy to treat human diseases. Goals of the Community The ELIXIR Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Community wa created in 2019. Its goal are: To simplify IDP data access and dissemination The IDP field ha not yet established official standard to allow consistent storage and dissemination of data. A key responsibility of the IDP Community is to define exchange formats, guideline and standard to improve the reproducibility, interpretation, and dissemination of experimental IDP data. This goal ha received ELIXIR support through the implementation study: . To drive the curation of IDP literature The vast majority of experimental data describing IDPs, the functional module encoding their function, the regulatory mechanism conditionally controlling that function, and their dysregulation in disease, is isolated in the text of research and review article and in poorly formatted supplementary tables. This hamper the integration of IDP information with data such a protein function, modification, splice variant and disease-causing single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs). Consequently, data created at great expense is significantly underutilised. The IDP community will support community-driven and automated curation of IDP literature. To develop a centralised knowledgebase for IDP data The computational IDP community in Europe develops many of the tool and resource that underlie the global IDP e-infrastructure. However, these asset are currently spread over numerous institute and university across Europe. The IDP community will oversee the development of an umbrella resource, , consolidating the European IDP community resource and tool through a single standards-compliant portal to improve the accessibility of these resource for the wider biological community. To integrate IDP data into ELIXIR Core Data Resources IDP annotation are significantly underrepresented in the . The IDP ELIXIR community will facilitate the integration of IDP data and service into these resource both directly and through the DisProtCentral resource. To improve tool for IDP analysis The IDP community would benefit from improved standardisation, benchmarking and indexing of computational tools. Key task include the development of guideline and resource for scientific (I/O) file formats, data analysis pipeline and benchmarking of scientific tools. These development will raise the quality of software developed by the community to produce more accurate, faster, more stable and user-friendly software implementation. Activities The IDP Community will be involved in a number of short-term, technical project called ELIXIR : (2018) (2021) (2021) Work is also presented in a series of webinars: Leadership Maria Cristina Aspromonte (ELIXIR Italy) Diana Battistella (ELIXIR Italy) Erds Gbor Dniel (ELIXIR Hungary) Wim Vranken (ELIXIR Belgium) Physilia Chua (Senior Science Officer, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact idp-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the Community's work. Publications: Necci, M., Piovesan, D., CAID Predictors. et al. Critical assessment of protein intrinsic disorder prediction. Nat Methods 18, 472481 (2021). . See also the entry on . presented at the ELIXIR All Hands meeting 2019 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Metabolomics Community Metabolomics is the study of small molecule metabolite in the metabolome, which is the complete set of metabolite in a biological sample. By studying these metabolites, we can observe change in cellular network and biochemical pathways. This could allow u to detect disease state and their progression, monitor response to therapy, stratify patient based on biochemical profiles, and highlight target for drug design. A major bottleneck for this rapidly-expanding field, however, is metabolite identification. Without a comprehensive data set of metabolite to compare against, the result of metabolomics experiment are often hard to interpret. The goal of the ELIXIR Metabolomics Community is to work with experimental scientist and developer to provide the resources, analysis tool and infrastructure that will help metabolite identification. The community will also establish an infrastructure of services, standard and datasets to help researcher discover, annotate and analyse metabolomics data from around Europe. Goals of the Community The ELIXIR Metabolomics Community wa created in 2018. Its goal are: To create and extend metabolomics datasets Metabolite identification is one of the key problem facing metabolomics researchers. Identification requires high quality curated datasets, and here the reference layer of the database is crucial. The MetaboLights database hold information about individual metabolites, their chemistry, their spectral data (MS, NMR), a well a their role in pathway and biological systems. The compound information in MetaboLights isinitially curated in , the dictionary of small chemical compounds. The ELIXIR Metabolomics Community aim to submit missing compound data from metabolomes into ChEBI and therefore enableMetaboLights to connect this data to metabolomes and be more comprehensive. This curated data (spectra, compounds, networks) will also be valuable a input for other reference repository and e-infrastructures (e.g. , ). The Community aim to use this information to create a FAIR data set for identified metabolite comprising various type of mass spectral data with the relevant metadata, and the associated quality of the identification.. This data set will be closely linked to MetaboLights. To develop data analysis workflow for metabolomics The Community will work with workflow management e-infrastructures such a , , and to develop the user-friendly, modular, and reproducible data analysis needed by the experimental community. The Community will develop comprehensive workflow for preprocessing, statistical analysis and annotation of data from LC-MS, direct infusion MS (DIMS), GC-MS, and NMR technologies. These will be run, saved, shared, and publicly referenced with digital object identifier and included in the ELIXIR . To promotedata standard and interoperability in metabolomics Promote . Develop the a a basis for metadata standards. Agree on persistent identifier for metabolites, using tool like . To support computing with large-scale metabolomics data The e-infrastructure enables researcher to deploy and test metabolomics workflow in public cloud (Amazon EC2, Google Cloud Platform) or in-house OpenStack environment in case where sensitive data cannot leave the institution. The ELIXIR Metabolomics Community will build on the PhenoMeNal compute infrastructure to provide further workflow for metabolomics that include the identification of metabolite in metabolomics experiment and the mapping onto biological pathway with neighbouring omics areas. To increase the metabolomics training available There is only one course dedicated to metabolite identification in Europe (at the Birmingham Metabolomics Training Centre). The ELIXIR metabolomics community aim to expand the delivery of metabolomics courses, for example through the . It will create training partnership with instrument vendor to increase the quality of training material and facilities. Commissioned Services ELIXIR fund a number of short-term technical project called . The Metabolomics Community is taking part in the following project: For completed project the Community ha been involved in see the . Leadership Maria Klapa (ELIXIR Greece) Steffen Neumann (ELIXIR Germany) Claire ODonovan (EMBL-EBI) Mihail Anton (ELIXIR Hub) Community Liaison Find out more van Rijswijk M, Beirnaert C, Caron C et al. The future of metabolomics in ELIXIR [version 2; referees: 3 approved]. F1000Research 2017, 6(ELIXIR):1649 (doi: ) Contact metabolomics-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the community's work. (EMBL-EBI Train online) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Microbial Biotechnology Community Bioeconomies are economy based on renewable resource from the land and sea, such a crops, fish, forest and animals. The bioeconomy in the EU is worth an estimated 2 trillion and employ 9% of the workforce. Microbial biotechnology design and build new strain of microbe that can produce chemical building blocks, food supplements, novel medicine and fuel to replace fossil fuels. As such, biotechnology can play a huge role in the bioeconomy and can help tackle climate change, achieve a clean environment, foster industrial innovation, and ensure food security. However, a formal framework for microbial biotechnology to manage and manipulate strains, samples, knowledge, data and metadata is still lacking. The Design - Build - Test - Learn (DBTL) cycle provides a conceptual framework for the development of tailor-made microbe and biological systems. The ELIXIR Microbial Community take the DBTL cycle a a starting point for defining it four key objectives. Goals of the Community To build scalable microbial Genome-Scale Metabolic Models (GSMMs) The Microbial Biotechnology Community will support the use of advanced Genome-Scale Metabolic Models (GSMMs) to predict the effect of genetic manipulation on cellular phenotype such a production of a specific compound or protein. The Community will integrate advanced GSMMs computational model in the DBTL cycle by developing a consolidated cell model or metabolic reaction network resource that will (1) provide species-specific genome-scale metabolic network and models, and (2) the necessary data to facilitate the design of microbial engineering projects. The specific action include: Improve representation of microbial reference enzyme and metabolic reaction in ELIXIR database and service Expand description of enzymatic activity to include a definition of the chemical transformation involved Develop an open-source community-supported evaluation suite for metabolic model testing Develop tool for microbial community description, modelling and design Develop user interface for visual manipulation of advanced genome-scale model and design method Define a catalogue of natural and synthetic bio-bricks Develop a semantic framework for integration of heterogeneous models, data and algorithm To develop a knowledge-based infrastructure for biotechnology The Community will develop a FAIR repository of experimental data in microbial biotechnology to (1) facilitate the development of biotechnology experimental implementation and (2) encourage the reporting of experimental data. As most application in microbial biotechnology first design microbial strain that are then engineered and characterised, such a repository will support design of new microbial strain and contribute to the annotation of genome-scale metabolic networks. To promote reproducibility and reuse of these experimental data, the repository will capture complete design information and complete metadata for the different Build-Test-Learn stages. The specific action include: Compile and maintain a list of data repository and tool available to the Microbial Biotechnology Community and register them in ELIXIR registry (FAIRsharing, bio.tools). Establish workflow between a limited number of interoperable tool and resource to support metadata integration across the different step in the DBTL cycle. Identify a set of tool and convention for metadata collection against control- and data-driven workflow for the different step in the DBTL cycle. Align the Community practice in workflows, data and metadata management with the current ELIXIR activity in ELIXIR , and Platforms by supporting the use of Common Workflow Language, BioContainers, identifiers.org or Ontology Lookup Service. Adopt and for long-term public pooling of final models, data and workflows. Build a new data repository for reaction rule that will gather both positive and negative results. To develop a unified semantic ontology for microbial biotechnology To increase the tool interoperability, support dataset integration within and across the DBTL cycle(s), and increase the potential of data-mining approaches, the Community will develop shared semantic standard for the representation of data and knowledge in microbial biotechnology. By implementing RDF data models, the Community will demonstrate how existing ELIXIR Node resource can be integrated to provide a unified access to data to end-users. The specific action include: Map between language that describe the designs, build processes, models, entity and experimental data in the DBTL cycle and promote their convergence where possible. Register these standard in . Import Genome-scale metabolic network and biochemical pathway from major resource into a common semantic namespace of chemical compounds, reactions, cellular compartment and proteins. Support the provenance annotation of models, designs, build information and experimental data. To develop training and community engagement in microbial biotechnology To address the lack of a European catalogue of available training material in microbial biotechnology and to support European coordination in training activity relevant to microbial biotechnology, the Community will collaborate with the and in facilitating access to high-quality training and public engagement. The specific action include: Compile a catalogue of online course related to Microbial Biotechnology; provide link to these in the ELIXIR Training portal (TeSS). Organise developer hackathons to support the technical activity defined in the technical goal of the Community (see above). Organise end-user competition on a series of pathway and strain designs, or metabolite identification in microbial strains. Organise public outreach event a part of existing network and project in microbial biotechnology. Commissioned Services The Microbial Biotechnology Community will be involved in a number of short-term, technical project called . The first such project helped establish the Community, and ran from January 2017 to June 2018: This webinar gave an overview of the result of the study: Leadership Vitor Martins do Santos (ELIXIR Netherlands) Anil Wipat (ELIXIR UK) Deepti Jaiswal Kundu (Scientific Officer - Communities, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact microbial-biotechnology-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org or Clare Garrard (clare.garrard [at] elixir-europe.org) if you would like to find out more about the Community's work and learn how you can get involved. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Microbiome Community Microbiome research ha grown substantially over the past decade in term of the range of biome sampled, identified taxa, and the volume of data derived from the samples. In particular, experimental approach such a metagenomics, metabarcoding, metatranscriptomics, a well a other -omics are providing key information on the function, diversity and mechanistic driver of microbial communities. The ELIXIR Microbiome Community aim to promote standard around microbiome-derived sequence analysis and multi-omics integration, a well a understanding the gap in training, method and reference databases, and efficiently scale bioinformatics infrastructure and resource for microbiome research across all biomes. Goals of the Community Develop standard for FAIR microbiome analysis Data Establish a mapping between biome and checklist to develop controlled vocabulary and metadata quality check Align metadata across database Develop a training module dedicated to microbiome metadata Foster international collaboration between other resource provider and database to ensure global harmonisation of e-infrastructures for microbiome research Tools Improve annotation via bio.tools and development of EDAM term Leverage the CAMI initiative to facilitate benchmarking of tool and workflow Workflows Share idea on the design and implementation of workflow for microbiome research, promoting the use of best practice Promote RO-Crate Federated computation Enable the execution of MGnify pipeline in Galaxy and/or other data management workflows, and submission of result to MGnify Establish routine mechanism for federating microbiome analysis (e.g. RO-Crates, resources) Build capacity in microbiome analysis Create a catalog of training resource for microbiome analysis Develop training resource to Increase awareness of microbiome tools, resources, and their applicability to different microbiomes Address knowledge gap in generating and adopting workflow Deliver targeted training for different microbiome community Build a community of trainer Represent the Microbiome Community in it complexity Evaluate needs, key datasets, data analysis approaches, omics data types, and biome-specific specialisation Identify key expert involved in viral, prokaryotic, and eukaryotic analysis Establish and share a strategic technical roadmap with the Communities and Platforms, highlighting key contact Identify relevant funding calls, with the aid of building microbiome research informatics capacity and connecting to key expert in other omics (e.g. metaproteomics) Develop crosstalk between distinct biome area Develop a connection with the industry Represent the Microbiome Community at international conferences, promoting Community/ELIXIR output and solution Commissioned Services The Marine Metagenomics Community ha been involved ina number of short-term, technical project called. These have included: Leadership Brnice Batut (ELIXIR Germany) Rob Finn (EMBL-EBI) Eric Pelletier (ELIXIR France) Physilia Chua (Senior Science Officer, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact microbiome-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org. Contact mmp [at] uit.nofor any enquiry about the Marine Metagenomics Portal. Contact metagenomics-help [at] ebi.ac.uk for all enquiry about EBI metagenomics. Follow to receive the latest news about update to our services. Publications: White paper: Finn RD, Balech B, Burgin Jet al.Establishing the ELIXIR Microbiome Community [version 1; peer review: 1 approve with reservations].F1000 Research2024, 13(ELIXIR): 50. (doi:) Agafonov A, Mattila K, Tuan CD et al. META-pipe cloud setup and execution [version 1; referees: awaiting peer review]. F1000Research 2017, 6(ELIXIR):2060 (doi: ) Alexandre A, Mitchell AL, Boland M et al. A new genomic blueprint of the human gut microbiota. Nature 2019 (doi: ) Mitchell AL, Scheremetjew M, Denise H et al. EBI Metagenomics in 2017: enriching the analysis of microbial communities, from sequence read to assemblies. Nucleic Acids Res. 2018; 46: D726-D735 (doi: ). Klemetsen T, Raknes IA, Fu J et al. The MAR databases: development and implementation of database specific for marine metagenomics. Nucleic Acids Res. 2018; 46: D692-D699 (doi: ). Santamaria M, Fosso B, Licciulli F, Balech B, Larini I, Grillo G, De Caro G, Liuni S, Pesole G. ITSoneDB: a comprehensive collection of eukaryotic ribosomal RNA Internal Transcribed Spacer 1 (ITS1) sequences. Nucleic Acids Res. 2018; 46: D127D132 (doi: ) Robertsen EM, Denise H, Mitchell A et al. ELIXIR pilot action: Marine metagenomics towards a domain specific set of sustainable service [version 1; referees: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations]. F1000Research 2017, 6(ELIXIR):70 (doi: ) - from the ELIXIR All Hands Meeting, March 2017. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Plant Sciences Community The need to cope with population growth and climate change adaptation is a major challenge. We can help address this challenge by filling the gap in managing the research data life cycle, and help plant scientist integrate data to extract biological knowledge. The Plant Sciences Community is an interdisciplinary group of researcher with diverse background from computer science to different field of plant biology. We answer the need of both bioinformaticians and plant biologists. The Community objective is to develop an infrastructure supporting the integration and linking of different plant data types. These data type range from phenomics and genomics to transcriptomics, metabolomics, modelling and bibliographic data. The underlying scientific use case encompass genetics and genomics approach in plant sciences, with an extension of the scope towards system biology. The Community aim at promoting tools, databases, standard and best practice for plant research. The Plant Community ha also published a . 2020 AGM Report The Community ha met during the 2020 ELIXIRAll Hands. The report of the discussion is publicly available and give an overview of the most up to date activity and objective of the Community. Collaboration with EMPHASIS The Community ha published a report with to clarify the strategy and role of ELIXIR and EMPHASIS in managing plant phenotyping data across Europe, and to identify opportunity for working together. The report wa based on a workshop held on 15 May 2018. Goals of the Community The goal of the Community are grouped into eight tasks. The data life cycle showing the Community task (in the blue circle and centre) and the use case that support them (around the outer edge). 1. Data standard development and dissemination The Community aim to: Support and encourage the integration of global standards, formats, guideline and ontology (e.g. MIAPPE, MCPD, BrAPI, plant trait ontologies) into repositories, tool (analysis, interoperability/conversion) and interface (search and visualisation). Extend existing work by developing or improving guideline and standard for other data type (genomic, genotyping, *omics), a listed in FAIRsharing. 2. Data collection The Community aim to: Improve and leverage ELIXIR Recommended Interoperability Resources tool such a the ISA Tools and ELIXIR deposition databases, to ensure reliable data and metadata acquisition for all data type and platforms. Leverage independent, platform-specific workflows, providing metadata formatting and validation tools, e.g. Fairdom. PHIS, Pippa, PhenoLIMS, linked to exact provenance information (raw data acquisition and processing). 3. Data Finding The Community aim to: Ensure the visibility and reuse of data and to ease it connection to analysis environments. Improve plant related, highly distributed repository Findability through the development of simple and light data federation along the model of and . Expand connection with other data sources, e.g. via the ELIXIR service , currently connected to BrAPI datasources, including genotyping data such a EBI databases. 4. Data integration The Community aim to: Acquire knowledge from data analysis and interpretation across datasets from different domains. Setting up best practice and develop resource (e.g. Recommended Interoperability Resources) for the deep integration of meta/data with literature and knowledge. Develop of a PanGenome graph. This is especially important in polyploid crops, and support successful data integration. is foreseen to be used for this task. 5. Data storage The Community aim to: Facilitate the adoption of FAIR-enabling standard and guideline for cross-domain repository (in support of available ). Work on a policy that increase sustainability and FAIRness of it community repository (e.g. through label like Core Trust Seal or re3data, catalog of community repository in FAIRsharing or the data platform, ...). 6. Data publication and sharing The Community aim to: Enable citability, following the principal, that each dataset in the public, open science domain need to be assigned with a global unique identifier (e.g. DOI) for referencing in wider open science archive (DataCite etc) and to facilitate it further dissemination through data publication (GigaScience, ScientificData) and scientific publications. Standardise IDs to ensure unique IDs. Carried out on the level of dataset element such a biological material (e.g. MCPD/MIAPPE), data acquisition technology (e.g. genotyping or phenotyping facilities), a well a trait will be considered. 7. Tools and workflow The Community aim to: Standardise and annotate data with reproducible . This relies on the existence of a comprehensive tool registry (e.g. biotools.org) and it connection to workflow set up by the ELIXIR Compute Platform and the Galaxy Community. Promote existing workflow and best practice (existing tool compatibility, interoperability and standard input/output). 8. Processing and analysing The Community aim to: Ensure access to detailed data provenance, when desirable. Facilitate (data) analysis step facilitated through connection between data repository and analysis environment (similarly to existing examples: BrAPI to R connections, various Galaxy workflows). Commissioned Services The Plant Community ha been involved ina number of short-term, technical project called. The current project it is involved in are: For completed project the Community ha been involved in see the . Leadership Sebastian Beier (ELIXIR Germany) Kristina Gruden (ELIXIR Slovenia) Cyril Pommier (ELIXIR France) Physilia Chua (Senior Science Officer, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact the plant community list (plant-community [at] elixir-europe.org) to learn how you can get involved. Contact Cyril Pommier (cyril.pommier [at] inra.fr). Contact Kristina Gruden (kristina.gruden [at] nib.si). Contact Sebastian Beier (s.beier [at] fz-juelich.de). Contact all co-leads at plant-sciences-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Proteomics Community Proteomics is the large-scale experimental study of the proteome, which is all the protein that are produced or modified by an organism or system. Proteomics can tell u about when and where protein are expressed, the rate of protein production and degradation, characterisation of protein post-translational modification (e.g. phosphorylation), elucidating protein structures, and protein-protein interactions. This information can be combined with data from other omics discipline (genomics, metagenomics, metabolomics) to give u greater insight into how organism work. The goal of the ELIXIR Proteomics Community is to develop and maintain sustainable proteomics tool and data resources. An essential part of the development will also be the FAIRification of the resource (i.e.making the resource - Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable). Goals of the Community The ELIXIR Proteomics Community wa created in September 2017 and it goal are: To improve how proteoform data is collected and integrated with other omics data Proteoforms are the different molecular form that a protein produced by a single gene can take. Different proteoforms can have different biological function or can be disease biomarkers. Current proteomics data analysis doe not provide sufficient depth and accuracy to distinguish between proteoforms, so the proteomics community aim to create resource for handling, analysing and validating proteoforms. This will include creating data standard for proteoform description and detection. The Community will also make multi-omics data set available and findable for a larger community. This will make it easier to integrate proteomics data with other omics data, and enable greater insight into the relationship between proteoforms, genes, metabolite and other meta-scale entities. The Community is conducting an Implementation Study called , which run until June 2018. To develop data processing and analysis pipeline in proteomics The Community aim to develop open, scalable, user-friendly and quality controlled data analysis pipelines. These could be used in different compatible software environments, including cloud infrastructures. Users should have access to the tool of their choice for the main experimental approach in the field, such a data-dependent acquisition (DDA), data-independent acquisition (DIA), and targeted approach like Selected Reaction Monitoring. To help standardise data management and annotation in proteomics The Community aim to develop guideline and tool for the improvement of proteomics data set annotation, a well a extend data repository such a PRIDE (an ELIXIR core data resource) to facilitate public data reuse. It also aim to develop and implement guideline and software for managing identifiable human (clinical) data from proteomics analyses. Commissioned Services ELIXIR fund a number of short-term technical project called . The Proteomics Community is currently involved in the following: For completed project the Community ha been involved in see the . Leadership Juan Antonio Vizcano (EMBL-EBI) Oliver Kohlbacher (ELIXIR Germany) Lennart Martens (ELIXIR Belgium) Find out more Vizcano JA, Walzer M, Jimnez RC et al. A community proposal to integrate proteomics activity in ELIXIR [version 1; referees: 2 approved]. F1000Research 2017, 6:875 (doi: ) Contact proteomics-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the community's work. (EMBL-EBI Train online) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Rare Diseases Community The Rare Disease Community extends and generalisesthe system of access authorisation and high volume secure data transfer developed within the project (see the for details). The goal of the Community is to create a federated infrastructure that will enable researcher to discover, access and analyse different rare disease repository across Europe. It is doing this in partnership with other European infrastructure projects, namely , and . Services offered : a catalogue of tool and data resource useful for rare disease research. This wa developed by the Rare Disease Community and is continuously updated by them. Use Case focussed user journey through the suite of of tool and data resource useful for rare disease research.Members of the ELIXIR Rare Diseases Community have generated these Service Bundles and they are continuously updated. Goals of the Community To maintain a registry of data resource and analysis tool critical for rare disease research The Community work to identify the data resource and tool most used in rare disease research, and to identify resource that are required but that don't currently exist. The portfolio of resource is maintained at . The Community ha published the result of it 2017 . To provide a technical framework for the comparison and standardisation of service used by the rare disease community The Community ha developed arare disease data linkage plan that allows it to test thattools, models, and protocol to standardise data service in the rare disease domain conform to Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable () data principles. To achieve this, the Community collaborates with stakeholder such a , , and the FAIR project . To build a portal through which authorised researcher can access rare disease data from repository and catalogue around Europe Preliminary work is being done in an Implementation Study: . To organise training courses, workshop and hackathons These eventstrain rare disease researcher how to use ELIXIR services, and capture the special service requirement of the Rare Diseasecommunity. See the for upcoming course and workshops. Commissioned Services The Rare Diseases Community ha been involved ina number of short-term, technical project called. The current study it is involved in is: For the previous study involving the Rare Diseases Community see the . Leadership Marco Roos (ELIXIR Netherlands) Sergi Beltran (ELIXIR Spain) Giselle Kerry (Programme Manager for Human Genomics and Translational Data, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact Giselle Kerry (giselle.kerry [at] elixir-europe.org) to learn how you can get involved with ELIXIR's work with rare diseases, and how this work can help you. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Research Data Management Community Research Data Management (RDM) is central to the implementation of the FAIR (Findable Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) and Open Science principles. Recognising the importance of RDM, ELIXIR Platforms and Nodes have invested in RDM and launched various project and initiative to ensure good data management practice for scientific excellence. These project have resulted in a rich set of tool and resource for FAIR data management. However, these resource remain scattered across project and ELIXIR structures, making their dissemination and application challenging. Therefore, it is important to coordinate these effort for sustainable and harmonised RDM practices, with dedicated forum for RDM professional to exchange knowledge and share resources. Goals of the Community The ELIXIR RDM Community will bring together RDM expert to develop ELIXIRs vision and coordinate it activity in order to take advantage of the available RDM assets. It aim to coordinate RDM best practice and provide an overview of how to use the existing ELIXIR RDM services, in close collaboration with ELIXIR Platforms, Communities and Focus Groups. The expected member of the Community are life science RDM professional in academia and industry in ELIXIR and beyond. The scope of the Community is: The network of RDM professional across all Nodes (and beyond); The management of RDM knowledge and know-how in the form of the content of the ELIXIR RDM ecosystem; The management of the RDM training resource and expertise; Coordination of the interaction with external international stakeholder in the area of RDM. The initial objective of the RDM Community focus on sustaining and consolidating the output of previous initiative and project into a unified structure. This fall into four main areas: People network Provide a forum that enables regular inter-personal knowledge exchange between life science RDM professionals. Facilitate ELIXIR Node capacity building in deploying RDM services, e.g. by establishing a knowledge handbook for RDM service providers, and developing an RDM service maturity model for ELIXIR Nodes. RDM knowledge Coordinate and contribute to the RDM ecosystem content by collaborating with the editorial board of RDMkit and FAIR Cookbook, to ensure that the content is continuously fit for purpose. Collect requirement that would facilitate flow of FAIR data from researcher to repository (such a the ELIXIR Deposition Databases) via RDM services, in order to improve the FAIRness of research data made available for life science and society at large. RDM training Provide a forum that enables knowledge, and teaching of best practice exchange among RDM trainers. Ensure that RDM training material are being developed and FAIRified, enabling reuse and adoption by the ELIXIR Nodes. Develop RDM learning path for researchers, data stewards, tool developer and trainers. External stakeholder Create and maintain an overview of external stakeholder engagement with RDM aspect across ELIXIR Platforms, Communities, Focus Groups and projects. Leadership Munazah Andrabi (ELIXIR UK) Flora D'Anna (ELIXIR Belgium) Niclas Jareborg (ELIXIR Sweden) Mijke Jetten (ELIXIR Netherlands) Clare Garrard (Scientific Officer - Communities, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Mailing list: rdm [at] elixir-europe.org or contact the co-leads at rdm-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org. Publications: D'Anna F, Jareborg N, Jetten M et al. A research data management (RDM) community for ELIXIR [version 1; peer review: awaiting peer review]. F1000Research 2024, 13(ELIXIR):230 () Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Single-Cell Omics Community Single-cell and spatial omics (SCO) ha revolutionised the way and the level of resolution by which life science research is conducted. It hasnot only impactedour understanding of fundamental cell biology, but ha also provided novel solution in cutting-edge medical research. The rapid development of single-cell and spatial technology ha been accompanied by the active development of data analysis methods, resulting in a plethora of new analysis tool and strategy every year. Such a rapid development of SCO method and tool pose several challenge in standardisation, benchmarking, computational resource and training. These challenge are in line with the activity of ELIXIR. The ELIXIR Single-Cell Omics Community aim to identify the main challenge in single-cell and spatial omics research and coordinate an international effort to best serve the need of researchers. The Community will build on top of national experiences, and pave the way towards integrated long-term solution for SCO research. The SCO is rapidly expanding in term of methods, data and tools. (a) Current count of article using SCO technology and cumulative number of cell sequenced and deposited in public databases. (b) Number of tool developed specifically to work with SCO. (c) Most common SCO molecular profiling technology mentioned in publications. (d) Top 15 most targeted category for software development in SCO. (e) Number of tool developed for SCO, split by which scripting language are used. Data were taken from the and the , and surveyed up until January 2022. Figure from . Goals of the Community The SCO Community ha outlined key focus area in their . In the initial phase the Community aim to address issue in: Training This is the core goal of the Community. We will connect existing material to compile a comprehensive collection of training materials, datasets and guideline on how to teach for trainer and learners. We will adopt both top down and bottom up approach via: Trainer the Trainer (TtT) workshop for exchanging idea about best practices, method and datasets, and offering advance training course and compiling video catalogue of training material to enable self-study and asynchronous learning for researchers. In the long term we aim to utilise to establish a well-curated ELIXIR SCO training portal, listing national and international bodies, web resource and upcoming training events. Standardisation and interoperability Several standard exist in the field of Single-Cell Omics (e.g. FASTQ, FAST5, BAM, CRAM), while a few processed data format are starting to converge (e.g. tab-separated files, AnnData, HDF5, loom, SingleCellExperiment, Seurat, scverse). However, many of these have had to change in order to adapt to new technological advance that rendered previous format inadequate. We will focus on best practice for FAIRification in the SCO Community, building upon establishing and promoting data and metadata standards. This will be strongly coordinated with the . To effectively address shortfall in current data/metadata standard paradigms, we will work towards monitoring emerging technology and body and communicate these guideline to them. We will also help incorporate new experimental concept into these existing guidelines. Particular focus will be on spatial gene expression, a this is already showing sign of widespread adoption. Identifying the most appropriate and performant analysis tool A plethora of SCO tool exist, and yet standard on how to benchmark or evaluate the accuracy of each tool are lacking. Furthermore, most benchmark effort are focused on certain cell type or tissues. The first goal is the identification of a few scRNA-seq datasets for developing the rule to be used for defining datasets suitable to become benchmarking cases. We aim to create a central pipeline to benchmark SCO tool and define standard datasets for such benchmarks. The outcome of benchmarking and software challenge allow data scientist to make an informed decision on the software to be used in their analytical workflows. To facilitate findability and usability, we aim to contribute to tool registry and provide portable software environment of the most commonly used tools/workflows. In the long term, we aim to provide cloud deployable analysis pipeline that utilise and platforms, a well a providing curated datasets for user driven benchmark on the infrastructure. Leadership Raffaele Calogero (ELIXIR Italy) Naveed Ishaque (ELIXIR Germany) Eija Korpelainen (ELIXIR Finland) Clare Garrard (Scientific Officer - Communities, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact details: Community co-leads: single-cell-omics-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org Czarnewski P, Mahfouz A, Calogero RA et al. , F1000Research 2022, 11(ELIXIR):869 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Systems Biology Community Introduction to the Community Systems biology aim to understand how biological function emerge from interaction between the multiple component of living system by modelling the (dynamics of) interaction and processes. It study what make the whole different from the sum of it parts. A key feature of system biology is often the integration of data, which is often in large volume and heterogeneous, at multiple scales, both in space and in time. The system biology cycle The overarching long-term goal of the ELIXIR Systems Biology Community is to make system biology modelling a central pillar of research in biology. In this vision, system biological model are developed based on the understanding of the biological problem, are used to design biological experiments, and help with the interpretation of collected data. The combined result then allow the development of actionable solution to the original biological problem. In the context of ELIXIR, the Systems Biology Community ha two main aims: To bring model to the centre of ELIXIRs effort to integrate and interpret ; To further and facilitate the use of ELIXIRs data, tools, interoperability, compute and training resource by Community participant and member of the wider European and global system biology community. The system biology community in Europe and globally is already well-organised, although it ha lacked a systematic link to ELIXIR. Members of the Systems Biology Community are active participant in established project and network such a , , , , and . The Community encompasses many former participant in the . Goals of the Community As set out in it white paper, the Community ha identified a set of short (3-year), medium (6-year) and long-term (10-year) goal that address it seven Grand Challenges. These are grouped under four main theme which will be reflected in the Communitys first Implementation Study: Strengthening standardisation and interoperability The standardisation need in system biology remain diverse. Data and models, including their metadata, need consistent structuring following standardised formats. Close collaboration of ELIXIR with standardisation community dedicated to modelling in the life sciences, such a COMBINE, a well a with relevant committee of standardisation body like CEN/CENELEC and ISO, will ensure further development and adaptation of existing modelling standard to the need of model shared via ELIXIR resources. Developing and deploying data and modelling technology Although the intertwining between modelling and experimentation is a hallmark of system biology, it practical implementation remains challenging. Partly this is due to culture and insufficient training, but it also stem from difficulty in generating adequate, quantitative dynamic data that can support modelling and from the lack of model that are sufficiently accurate to handle the generated data. Addressing these challenge will require: an interface between big data and modelling frameworks; integration of modelling approaches, including temporal and spatial modelling; application of the modelling result in a wide range of relevant domains, from bioengineering at various scale to precision and personalised medicine. Building capacity and providing training Although the separate curriculum in physical sciences, data-focused life science and computer science have become quite effective in training in their own disciplines, they are inadequate to train multidisciplinary team which need to tackle increasingly complex problems. Systems biologist often have to cope with scattered knowledge resources. Hence, a well-balanced and consistent set of competence are required that are compatible across the ELIXIR Nodes. We propose to implement a programme of organisational capacity building, including specific training in gap areas, advanced training, knowledge sharing and staff exchange to build a well-developed and interconnected Systems Biology Community. We will make use of the ELIXIRs training portal by integrating different tool and service relevant to system biology and making them available to all Nodes. Fostering industrial and societal embedding Systems-level understanding and analysis of huge amount of experimental data is required for different industry such a hospitals, pharmaceutical industry, biotechnological companies, health care institutions, regulatory agencies, and government. However, the potential significance of system approach in these different sector ha not been exploited fully. The ELIXIR Systems Biology Community will take an active role in the use of ELIXIR resource and in the definition of activity aiming to develop new industrial collaboration and to strengthen existing ones. These activity will be aligned to ELIXIRs by: facilitating collaboration between researcher in academia and industry; allowing the use of ELIXIR resource by industry; engaging effectively and appropriately with the private sector. Internal project ELIXIR fund a number of short-term technical projects. The Systems Biology Community is taking part in the following project: Leadership John Hancock (ELIXIR Slovenia) Vitor Martins do Santos (ELIXIR Netherlands) Ane upani (ELIXIR Slovenia) Deepti Jaiswal Kundu (Scientific Officer - Communities, ELIXIR Hub) Find out more Contact systems-biology-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the community's work. Martins do Santos V, Anton M, Szomolay B et al. Systems Biology in ELIXIR: modelling in the spotlight [version 1; peer review: awaiting peer review]. F1000Research 2022, 11(ELIXIR):1265 () Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Toxicology Community Toxicology ha been an active research field for many decades, with academic, industrial and government involvement. Modern omics and computational approach are changing the field, from merely disease-specific observational model into target-specific predictive models. Traditionally, toxicology ha strong link with other field such a biology, chemistry, pharmacology and medicine. With the rise of synthetic and new engineered materials, alongside ongoing prioritisation need in chemical risk assessment for existing chemicals, early predictive evaluation are becoming of utmost importance to both scientific and regulatory purposes. The current main goal of the Toxicology Community is to support the integration of standards, tool and resource to support toxicology research project and risk governance at the national and international level. Goals of the Community The ELIXIR Toxicology Community wa created in 2020. Its goal are: Align open solution from toxicology research with ELIXIR service and resource Both toxicology project and ELIXIR and have developed models, ontologies, educational material and standards. The Toxicology Community will align effort and maximise the benefit. For example, various toxicology project have been using annotation in online training material. Connect toxicology research with ELIXIR Platforms and Communities More synergy can be found by more closely connecting the core ELIXIR resource and community with the inclusive community that have evolved over the past few year like OpenTox, eNanoMapper, diXa, OpenRiskNet, NORMAN and older community like the Federation of European Toxicologists & European Societies of Toxicology (EUROTOX), the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) and European Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society (EEMGS, formerly known a EEMS). Develop open community standard Toxicology project like OpenTox, diXa, eNanoMapper, and others have already developed various open, domain-specific standards. Some in collaboration with ELIXIR project like , , etc. This goal aim to further develop open community standard to support common interest, including ontologies, APIs, data formats, deposition databases, and publication recommendations. Leadership Egon Willighagen (ELIXIR Netherlands) Marvin Martens (ELIXIR Netherlands) Rob Stierum (ELIXIR Netherlands) Karine Audouze (ELIXIR France) Clare Garrard (ELIXIR Hub)Scientific Officer - Communities Find out more Contact toxicology-coleads [at] elixir-europe.org if you'd like to know more about the community's work. Publications: Martens M, Stierum R, Schymanski EL et al. ELIXIR and Toxicology: a community in development [version 2; peer review: 2 approved]. F1000Research 2023, 10(ELIXIR):1129 () Other outputs: FAIRsharing Toxicology Collection: BioSchemas collaboration leading to us Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Focus Groups ELIXIR Focus Groups are agile structure that bring interested party together around a particular topic. Typically they are used to address emerging area of interest and seek to identify a strategy that ELIXIR can follow. Establishing a Focus Group may lead to a new ELIXIR Community, but that is not the default intention. In most case that will not happen. In addition, it will not be a requirement for a proposed new Community to have previously been a Focus Group. Focus Groups are open to any member of ELIXIR plus, where useful, external parties. They are established by a lightweight approval process, at the discretion of the ELIXIR Director. You can find the rationale, a more detailed description, and the application formto create a Focus Group in . Current Focus Groups Past Focus Groups . In May 2023 this group became the . . In May 2022 this group became the . (2020-22) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Biocuration Focus Group About the Biocuration Focus Group The process of biocuration, performed by expert biologists, is the life-blood of knowledgebases. The work of biocurators involves identifying and reading the full text of key papers, then extracting relevant information with supporting evidence. A growing corpus of open-access full-text article provides new opportunity to enhance article triage and browsing systems; at the same time, many text mining workflow are sufficiently mature to support curation activities. ELIXIR ha structure in place to support organisation and developer providing biological data and data-centric tool at scale and ha been very successful in this endeavour. Historically, these service have been led by major bioinformatics services. In the , there is an increased focus on community of researcher and the nurturing of smaller-scale grass-roots source of curated data to support specialist or emerging are of interest. The Biocuration Focus Group is establised to provide the supporting mechanism driving this scientific theme in the 2019-2023 Scientific Programme, and widen the applicability of ELIXIR activity to data resource developers/operators across and their constituent institutions. Goals This Focus Group will act a a connection point for all of the ELIXIR member and their close collaborator who have biocuration a their main area of responsibility, a an important part of their research activities, or a an application area for tool they are developing. It will: Connect ELIXIR biocuration expert and user to (ISB) and coordinate ELIXIR activites with the goal and event of the ISB. Connect biocurators to the activity of the ELIXIR, including the and the , and act a a user group to shape requirement and evaluate relevant technologies. Track the Data Manager Expert Network being developed under ELIXIR-CONVERGE and contribute advice on the relation of individual biocurators to ELIXIR under the current model and in future programme. Deliverables Outputs are likely to include: ELIXIR contribution to ISB event and strategy. Gap analysis, technical requirement and end user review of resource for biocurators. Recommendations on how ELIXIR can support the career and recognition of researcher with biocuration a part of their role. Contribution to future ELIXIR strategy and possible role for individual biocurators and the biocuration community. Steering committee Federica Quaglia (ELIXIR-IT) - - Chair Valerie Wood (ELIXIR-UK) - Ulrike Wittig (ELIXIR-DE) - Sandra Orchard (EMBL-EBI) - Melissa Harrison(EMBL - EBI) - Luana Licata (ELIXIR-IT) - ELIXIR Hub CoordinationContact Gavin Farrell (gavin.farrell [at] elixir-europe.org) Mailing list biocuration [at] elixir-europe.org Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Cancer Data Focus Group In the field of cancer there are many challenge e.g. tumour heterogeneity; investigation of new enzymes; the fight against contamination; tumour evolution; cancer progression; harmonization of data from electronic health records. To address the need of this complex landscape cancer data ha been identified a one of the Use Cases of the EU Member State driven . Additionally, cancer data ha been identified by Horizon Europe a one of five Mission Areas. The objective of this Focus Group is to discus the common bioinformatic need that Use Cases of working within the cancer field pose to the ELIXIR Nodes; to afford the opportunity to proactively identify the topic at the intersection of ELIXIRs priority and this European research area. This will enable ELIXIR to dynamically map the gathered information towards these topic where possible. Goals of the group A core activity in scope for this Focus Group is to present Gold Standard example from ELIXIR Nodes (e.g. research institutes, hospital and clinics) in working with cancer related data in order to highlight the opportunity arising from data, tool and platform interoperability, and to promote the added value from unobstructed data sharing of cancer data for biomedical research and applications. A planned outcome is the publication of a positioning paper on recommendation from ELIXIR on cancer data related best practices, and where the bioinformatic infrastructure gap are across Europe in working with cancer data. Mailing List cancer_data_focus_group [at] elixir-europe.org Group chair Macha Nikolski (ELIXIR France) Eivind Hovig (ELIXIR Norway) Fatima Al-Sharour (ELIXIR Spain) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Environmental Impact Focus Group This Focus Group will explore way to ass and minimise the environmental impact of ELIXIR, and of data handling in general. We will raise awareness about the issue and solutions. We will also explore how ELIXIR can help interdisciplinary research on the environmental impact on human health and biodiversity. 1. Environmental impact of scientific computing We aim to: Raise awareness Collect and summarise information for our community Make service user aware of their environmental impact, e.g. expose the impact of an analysis in Galaxy Explore method for the environmental impact assessment of scientific computing (e.g. hardware architectures, optimised hardware utilisation; energy consumption (in KWh electricity used to complete computation a part of the research work), energy sources, network usage (since transferring data come at a cost), location) Minimise rework by reusing a much a possible existing "building blocks" which have already been developed and validated (instead of systematically "reinventing the wheel") Suggest action to mitigate the impact 2. Environmental impact of ELIXIR We aim to: Offer concrete recommendation on how to lower the environmental impact of ELIXIR a a community, network of people and institutions, and a an organisation Link ELIXIR Platforms with the Green IT movement 3. Environmental impact on human health and nature We aim to: Bring together scientific community e.g.: Climate science Biodiversity (, ) Health data with geolocation (, ) Human exposome (), chemical exposure () Promote effort that will help interdisciplinary research on planetary health This group will initially work through this and a channel on theELIXIR Leadership Matus Kalas (ELIXIR Norway) Anne Fouilloux (Norway) Bjrn Grning (ELIXIR Germany) Participants Anne Fouilloux (Galaxy Climate Science Workbench Lead) Mat Kala (Tools Platform Ecosystem, ELIXIR-NO) Bjrn Grning (Tools Platform Lead, ELIXIR-DE) Mira Kuntz (Galaxy Project, ELIXIR-DE) Nicola Soranzo (Galaxy Project, ELIXIR-UK) Gareth Price (Australia, Galaxy, Galaxy Australia) Salvador Capella-Gutirrez (Tools Platform Lead, ELIXIR-ES) Venkata Satagopam (TeCG, HGTD, ELIXIR-LU) Helge Hecht (ELIXIR-CZ) Maria Luisa Chiusano (ELIXIR-IT) Laila Los (ELIXIR-DE) Vincent Breton (CNRS/IN2P3, ELIXIR-FR) Mailing list environmental-impact [at] elixir-europe.org Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here EOSC Focus Group Background The (EOSC)is a large programme that aim to transform European science along three major axes: Consolidation of e-Infrastructure service and position these service a an embedded supply-chain for data intensive scientific collaborations. Open Science in practice - transform the Open Science policy into scientific practice. Integrate the user-focussed service from research infrastructure - with their user community - to enable interdisciplinary research aligned with the major societal challenges. Goals of the group The ELIXIR EOSC Focus Group will connect ELIXIRs EOSC-related activities: coordinating ELIXIR member participation in the , providing a forum for Association member to report their activity and request ELIXIR policy and strategy guidance. aligning the ELIXIR Platforms with the EOSC Association Task Forces and related activity to maximise the impact of ELIXIR approach on EOSC and to identify contribution EOSC can make to ELIXIR objectives. providing an overview of and identifying synergy across ELIXIR participation in EOSC project with an ELIXIR contribution such a and EOSC-Future. connecting the ELIXIR Communities with the EOSC use cases, demonstrator and training activities. acting a a contact point for other ESFRI Infrastructures with a shared or aligned approach to EOSC. Specific deliverable are likely to include: A live connection for communication between the EOSC structure and the ELIXIR Nodes, Platforms, Communities and funded project including up to date list of ELIXIR EOSC participant and their EOSC roles. Strategy recommendation for the engagement and alignment of ELIXIR Platforms with EOSC activities. Reviews of ELIXIR impact across the many parallel contribution to EOSC. ELIXIR's EOSC Strategy The ELIXIR EOSC Focus Groupformeda detailing ELIXIR Europe's strategy for engagement with the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC). Produced by the ELIXIR-EOSC Focus Group during 2022. Mailing list eosc [at] elixir-europe.org Group chair Jonathan Tedds (jonathan.tedds [at] elixir-europe.org) Co-chairs Compute Platform: Ludek Matyska (CZ) Interoperability Platform: Frederik Coppens (BE), Susanna-Assunta Sansone (UK) Tools Platform: Salvador Capella-Gutierrez (ES), Bjoern Gruening (DE) Training Platform: Celia van Gelder (NL), Fotis Psomopoulos (GR), Jessica Lindvall (SE) Data Platform: Patrick Ruch (CH) ELIXIR Hub Coordination Support Contact Gavin Farrell (gavin.farrell [at] elixir-europe.org) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here FAIR Training Focus Group This Focus Group aim to implement FAIR principle in training (: Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable). The group contains member from ELIXIR and from the international community. Goals of the group Goal 1: Train scientist on how to implement FAIR principle The outcome of this effort is a catalog of courses, course materials, and curriculum on the FAIR principles. This also connects to relevant effort under , such a the Data Management and Data Stewardship curriculum development. An additional connection is also on the Terms4Skills initiative, capturing the competency necessary for training on the FAIR principles. Links Goal 2: FAIRify training material and course We are developing guideline for how training resource can be made FAIR, including training material on how to make training material FAIR. We are supporting the broader bioinformatics community to adopt these guidelines. The guideline also facilitate the creation of a checklist that can help streamline their adoption by trainer and community alike. Ultimately this improves the FAIRness of existing resource and make training more findable in , ELIXIR's registry of training course and materials. Outcomes of the group Publications: a notable outcome of this WG is the recently published . Webinar: by Patricia Palagi and Leyla Garcia Posters: presented at ISMB 2019 and 2020: : Making training material FAIR - experiences, challenges, solution First ELIXIR Hackathon on Developing (FAIR) training material for a lesson on how to develop (FAIR) training material on October 15, 2021 at BioHackathon Europe 2021: How to get involved/contribute Join the focus group meeting (first Wednesday of each month 9am CET): send an email to the mailing list, with the subject Join meeting calls. Contribute to the lesson on making training material FAIR. Connect through the corresponding GH repo: the link to the GitHub repo will be added shortly. Mailing list fair-training [at] elixir-europe.org Group chair Fotis Psomopoulos (ELIXIR Greece) Geert Van Geest (ELIXIR Switzerland) Sara Morsey (ELIXIR UK) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Health Data Focus Group The Health Data Focus Group aim to be the incubator of idea relating to health data and is ELIXIRs formal channel to organise this. Health data includes omics clinical (structured and unstructured EHRs, and clinical imaging) lifestyle/patient questionnaire administrative real-world wearables/mobile device data. All data will beanonymised/pseudonymised andconsented for research. The collection of identifiable routine clinical data in healthcare system are out of scope. Goals of the group Utilise anonymised/pseudonymised and consented health data for secondary research Implement research result into healthcare setting Evaluatethe current situation across ELIXIR Nodes, identifythe commonality andgaps are in interaction across Nodes, platforms, and studies. Provide best practice or recommendation on the management of FAIR Health Data, with infectious disease, particularly COVID-19 a a use case, in order to enable the access to and use of health data across Nodes after surveying existing initiative inside & potentially outside ELIXIR. Mailing list health-data-focus-group [at] elixir-europe.org Group chair Tim Beck (ELIXIR UK) Venkata Satagopam (ELIXIR Luxembourg) Arshiya Merchant(ELIXIR Hub)arshiya.merchant [at] elixir-europe.org Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Learning Paths Focus Group Learning Paths (LPs) are pathway that guide learner through a set of learning course or material to be undertaken progressively to acquire the desired knowledge and skill on a subject of interest. The primary objective of this Focus Group is to foster the exchange of knowledge, ideas, and experience with the aim of identifying needs, devising solutions, and advocating the widespread adoption of learning path across ELIXIR, it Nodes, Communities, and beyond. This effort will address the current lack of guidance in developing curriculum or structured training programs, with the ultimate goal of enhancing the learning experience for end users. Goals of the group Enhancing educational strategy for the development of structured learning programmes. Advocating and disseminating learning path guideline to support their development in ELIXIR. Learning Paths referencematerial Biohackathon Europe 2020 - Biohackathon Europe 2021 - Biohackathon Europe 2022 - Poster: Haurheeram V, ELIXIR Training Platform, Michotey C et al. Learning path development for plant data management [version 1; not peer reviewed]. F1000Research 2023, 12(ELIXIR):590 () Use-cases ofLearning Paths EOSC4Cancer:A guidance document for the EOSC4Cancer learning pathway () How to get involved/contribute Join the Focus Group monthly meeting - third Friday of each month 11:00-12:00 CET/CEST Join the mailing list - full information via mailing list reminder will be sent including call detail in advance of all calls. Join the ELIXIR Slack channel #fg_learningpaths Leadership Alexia Cardona (ELIXIR UK) Loredana Le Pera (ELIXIR Italy) Jessica Lindvall (ELIXIR Sweden) Mailing list learning-paths [at] elixir-europe.org Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Machine Learning Focus Group Machine Learning (ML) ha emerged a a discipline that enables computer to assist human in making sense of large and complex data sets. With the drop in the cost of high-throughput technologies, large amount of omics data are being generated and made accessible to researchers. Analyzing these complex high-volume data is not trivial, and the use of classical statistic can not explore their full potential. Machine Learning can thus be very useful in mining large omics datasets to uncover new insight that can consequently lead to the advancement of Life Sciences. The ELIXIR Machine Learning Focus Group wa initiated in October 2019, in order to capture the emerging need in Machine Learning expertise across the network. Goals of the group Standards for Machine Learning This includes aspect such a controlled terminology/ontology and service for ML model description and sharing, alignment to the ELIXIR and Platforms, a well a defining best practice for Machine Learning-related reviewing. Machine Learning and reproducibility This area focus on the definition of the best practice for developing, sharing and reusing Machine Learning approach (including, but not limited to, Machine Learning models, algorithms, framework and protocol including the DOME recommendation ), while at the same time involving the existing approach in the . Benchmarking of Machine Learning tool In order to facilitate clear and objective comparison of ML-based tools, it is important to establish a benchmarking protocol; this may include datasets, protocol and service offered by the ELIXIR Tools Platform. Training for Machine Learning Machine Learning ha been identified by the ELIXIR Training Platform gap analysis task a an existing need. As such, a particular area of focus for this group will be to design and produce training resource for supporting the ELIXIR community, based on the standard and approach established by the . Integration across ELIXIR Communities Machine Learning is a key competency that is relevant to a large number of activities, a well a being clearly aligned to several funding opportunities. As such, a persistent activity of this group is to align and coordinate these effort across all relevant ELIXIR groups, such a the and the . Outputs of the Focus Group The ML Focus group ha recently published the DOME recommendation in . DOME is a set of community-wide recommendation for reporting supervised machine learningbased analysis applied to biological studies. Broad adoption of these recommendation will help improve machine learning assessment and reproducibility. Going beyond a standard, the DOME recommendation can facilitate reproducibility in Machine Learning through the clear definition of the involved steps. As such, it can be also used in training capacity, assisting the implementation and overall design of ML study in Life Sciences. More information can be found on the . Mailing List ML_focus_group [at] elixir-europe.org Group chair Fotis Psomopoulos (ELIXIR Greece) Silvio Tosatto (ELIXIR Italy) Leyla Garcia ELIXIR Hub liaison Gavin Farrell (gavin.farrell [at] elixir-europe.org) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here RDA Activities Focus Group ELIXIR and the RDA The Research Data Alliance (RDA) is an organisation carrying momentum worldwide. The purpose of this focus group is to further enableELIXIRmembers toleveragethe benefit of theRDA and to ensure the life science point of view is represented in the RDA community. Goals: Ensure that life-science community within RDA that could use our effort are aware of the technical choice and possibility of ELIXIRBecome aware of the development in life-science data community outside of ELIXIREnsure that technical community are aware of development in data handling in the life sciencesBecome aware of technical development in data handling in other science field that are of value for ELIXIRStandards, database and other relevant resource are promoted, adopted and used through the FAIRsharing network Current activities: The RDA Focus Group is working to establish a governance framework for the operation a an advisory group to ELIXIR mission in the scope of Research Data Alliance involvement. The Steering Committee will lead the development of the strategy in ELIXIR-RDA activity and the governance framework of this focus group. Representative(s) from the RDA Activities Focus Group regularly attend the RDA Plenary Meeting, and communicate with the ELIXIR network via an executive summary generated after each plenary meeting. This Focus Group will meet every two month once an agreement of a regular bi-monthly slot is made with the group members. This focus group will act a a proxy of communication between ELIXIR and the other international initiative in the RDA-CODATA-GOFAIR "Data Together" triangle represent ELIXIR in the RDA's establish a success criterion to measure the benefit of RDA involvement to ELIXIR member at large encourage an uptake of the RDA standard within ELIXIR and provide a venue to collect opinion and feedback from ELIXIR Communities and Technical Production in adopting RDA standard at ELIXIR ELIXIR chaired RDA Working Groups (WG) - Allyson Lister (UK) Planned ouputs - -Marek Suchnek (CZ) - FotisPsomopoulos (GR) - Allyson Lister (UK) & Susanna-Assunta Sansone (UK) ELIXIR chaired RDA Interest Groups (IG) -Fotis Psomopoulos (GR) -FotisPsomopoulos (GR) -FotisPsomopoulos (GR) -Wolmar Nyberg kerstrm (SE) ELIXIR Hub CoordinationContact Gavin Farrell (gavin.farrell [at] elixir-europe.org) Mailing list: Links: Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Pathogen Data Focus Group Introduction The Pathogen Data Focus group aim to establish the basis for a distributed and interoperable network of regional and national pathogen data hubs. Goals Through a joint effort, the Focus group will work towards: Establishing consensus and promote the use and reuse of data, metadata and analysis standard Promoting FAIR data sharing and equity Proposing benchmark datasets and quality assessment Fostering capacity building for pandemic preparedness through training, Maturity Models and tools. Liaising with global pathogen epidemiology initiative (e.g., PHA4GE, WHO, ECDC). The Focus group will invite expert and stakeholder to join in this concerted, expert-driven effort towards sustaining and ensuring high-quality data for global surveillance and research. Mailing list pathogen-data [at] elixir-europe.org Leadership Aitana Neves (ELIXIR Switzerland) Isabel Cuesta De La Plaza (ELIXIR Spain) Erik Hjerde (ELIXIR Norway) Physilia Chua ELIXIR Hub Liaison Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Professionalising Careers in Research Infrastructures As a research infrastructure (RI), ELIXIR relies upon a diverse range of roles, such a trainers, data stewards, project managers, software engineers, developers, community managers. By highlighting the career option within a research infrastructure, we aim to promote interest in these role to support the career development of researcher beyond the traditional academic path of, for example, Principal Investigators. As well a supporting the research community by recognising infrastructure career paths, this Focus Group will actively contribute to ELIXIR's commitment to diversity and inclusion within the research ecosystem. Goals of the group Initially, the Focus Group will conduct a comprehensive survey of existing job advertisement channel (including the past activity) within ELIXIR in order to classify role (assessing function, hierarchical position, required skills, etc). The planned outcome of this mapping exercise will enhance the compatibility of job title and clarify the relationship among different role within ELIXIR. The Focus Group will also collaborate with external project with a related aim, such a , , , , or project a well a internal ELIXIR project and entity like ELEAD, ELITMa, , the and , , the and the . Mailing list ri-career-paths [at] elixir-europe.org Group chair Lisanna Paladin (ELIXIR Germany) Emma Karoune (ELIXIR UK) Jessica Lindvall (ELIXIR Sweden) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Internal project ELIXIR fund internal project to develop service and encourageknowledge exchange. There are two type of internal projects: Commissioned Services are project that: Develop the Platform service Support collaboration between ELIXIR Platforms and Communities Drive work in area that are strategically important to ELIXIR Calls now open Science tier Capacity Building Impact of internal project You can see how these project have increased connectionsacross the ELIXIR Nodes bylooking at the . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Commissioned Services Commissioned Services are project internal to ELIXIR, and funded through ELIXIR's own budget. See the on the intranet. The will focus on Commissioned Services project aligning with the programme priorities. See for the pre-2024 Commissioned services. Calls now open Science tier Capacity Building Enables scientist to access and analyse life science data. Deliver service to support distributed data management and analytics. Pages coming soon: Nodes Equip national Nodes for successful long-term operations. People Develop people and capacity to benefit science and society. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Collaborations ELIXIR collaborates closely with key European initiatives, including many of the ESFRI Research Infrastructures and e-Infrastructures.ELIXIR also ha an that describes the current ELIXIR activity of international relevance, and planned implementation action to reinforce ELIXIRs global significance and impact. In this context, the term International mean beyond Europe, with Europe defined a the country of the European Research Area (ERA). European collaboration International collaboration Australian BioCommons and Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Governance The ELIXIR Governance structure is defined in the . the highest decision-making body in ELIXIR. advises the Board on ELIXIR's scientific strategy and review ELIXIR Node applications. give advice and guidance on industry needs. responsible to the ELIXIR Board for implementing ELIXIR's scientific programme. consists of the head of the ELIXIR national infrastructure (Nodes). The Committee advises the ELIXIR Director to develop ELIXIRs scientific and technical strategy, including it programme. Chart showing that the main ELIXIR governing group is the ELIXIR Board. This is advised by the Scientific Advsory Board (SAB) and the Industry Advisory Board. Operational structure : ELIXIR ha five operational platforms: Data, Tools, Compute, Interoperability and Training. Each platform is led by a leadership team agreed by the . The Platform membership consists of task leads, technical staff and a Platform Coordinator. Each Platform Coordinator provides support to the Platform leader and ensures that the Platform's activity are aligned to it goals. : ELIXIR ha whose aim is to drive the development of the ELIXIR infrastructure from different user perspectives. These include a group of Human Data Communities. Four Communities were initiated during the with others being added continuously to broaden ELIXIR's user base. Coordinator group is comprised of technical representative from each ELIXIR Node. The group identifies gap and promotes connection among Nodes and Platforms. It is the responsibility of the TeCG to explore technical opportunity and issue aiming to provide advice and recommendations. The TeCG is connected with Platforms through Node technical representative actively involved in the implementation of Platforms. is composed of training representative of each of the ELIXIR Nodes. TrCG meet regularly to share information, expertise and to coordinate and lead the implementation of the ELIXIR training strategy across Europe. The Node Coordinators Group is composed of representative from ELIXIR Nodes. The purpose of the group is to share information and best practise in the operation of the ELIXIR Node. In many ELIXIR Nodes, the Node Coordinator is a key operational position funded by national funding. Handbook of Operations The provides information on the governance structure of ELIXIR, a well a it procedure and policies. Legal model The legal framework of ELIXIR is based on the , which ha been concluded among the Member States and and officially entered into force on 12 January 2014. Based on the ECA, EMBL carry out activity on behalf of ELIXIR that require EMBLs legal personality. This allows ELIXIR to take advantage of EMBLs privilege and immunities.EMBLis an international treaty organisation with 23Member States and twoassociate Member States.You can find out more about ELIXIR's legal and governance model on the . The is the legal document that tie together the ELIXIR Hub and the national Node. See also . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Technical Coordinators Group (TeCG) The ELIXIR Technical Coordinators group is composed of technical representative of each of the ELIXIR Nodes. Chair: Peter Maccallum (ELIXIR Hub) Name Node Role Organisation Frederik Coppens TeC VIB David Anto TeC CESNET Jan Paces Deputy TeC Institute of Molecular Genetics AS CR, Prague Piotr Jaroslaw Chmura TeC Technical University of Denmark (DTU) Emil Rydza Deputy TeC Technical University of Denmark (DTU) Justin Clark-Casey TeC EMBL - European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI) Hedi Peterson TeC University of Tartu Jarno Laitinen TeC CSC - IT Center for Science Ltd. Olivier Sallou TeC IRISA Olivier Collin Deputy TeC CNRS: National Centre for Science Research Bjrn Grning TeC University of Freiburg Sebastian Jaenicke Deputy TeC Forschungszentrum Jlich Sebastian Juenemann Deputy TeC Forschungszentrum Jlich Maria Klapa TeC Biomedical Sciences Research Centre (BSRC) "Alexander Fleming" Aristotelis Chatziioannou Deputy TeC National Hellenic Research Foundation, Greece Endre Barta TeC Agricultural Biotechnology Institute, Hungary Pavel Baranov TeC University College Cork Audrey Michel Deputy TeC University College Cork Federico Zambelli TeC University of Milan (UNIMI) Venkata Satagopam TeC Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine Christophe Trefois Deputy TeC Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine Rob Hooft TeC Dutch Techcentre for Life Sciences (DTL) Kjell Petersen TeC University of Bergen (UiB) Alexandre P Francisco TeC Intituto Superior Tcnico (IST) Jorge Oliveira Deputy TeC Instituto Gulbenkian da Cincia (IGC) Marko Vidak TeC University of Ljubljana Brane Leskoek Deputy TeC University of Ljubljana Josep Ll. Gelpi TeC Barcelona Supercomputer centre (BSC) Salvador Capella Deputy TeC Barcelona Supercomputer centre (BSC) Johan Viklund TeC NBIS - National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden Niclas Jareborg Deputy TeC NBIS - National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden Romuald Beaugrand TeC SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics Nicola Soranzo TeC Earlham Institute Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Training Coordinators ELIXIR Training is organised through it . The Training Platform is a European network of trainer - expert in their scientific domain and in adult learning. The Training Platform is managed by the Platform leadership team, supported by the Training Coordinators Group (TrCG). The ELIXIR Training Coordinators Group (TrCG) is composed of training representative of each of the ELIXIR Nodes. TrCG meet regularly to share information, expertise and to coordinate and lead the implementation of the ELIXIR training strategy across Europe. ELIXIR Node Contact name Training website Belgium Dr. Alexander Botzki Dr.Bruna Piereck (Deputy Coordinator) Czech Republic Dr. Vojtech Spiwok Dr. Marian Novotn (Deputy Coordinator) Denmark Prof. Veit Schwmmle EMBL-EBI Ms. Kim Gurwitz Estonia Dr. Hedi Peterson Finland Dr. Eija Korpelainen Mrs Pivi Rauste (Deputy Coordinator) France Dr. Olivier Sand Dr. Brnice Batut(Deputy Coordinator) Germany Dr. Daniel Wibberg Dr. Helena Schnitzer (Deputy Coordinator) Dr. Renato Alves (Deputy Coordinator) Greece Dr. Fotis Psomopoulos Prof. Vassiliki Iconomidou (Deputy Coordinator) Hungary Dr. Blint L Blint Dr. Zsuzsanna Dosztnyi (Deputy Coordinator) Dr. va Cssz Ireland Dr. Maria Doyle Italy Dr. Allegra Via Dr. Loredana Le Pera(Deputy Coordinator) Dr. Anna Marabotti (Deputy Coordinator) Israel Dr. Michal Linial Dr. Danny Ben-Avraham (Deputy Coordinator) Luxembourg Dr. Roland Krause Dr. Veronica Codoni (Deputy Coordinator) Netherlands Dr. Celia van Gelder Dr. Mijke Jetten(Deputy Coordinator) Norway Erin Calhoun Portugal Dr. Tiago Paixo Slovenia Dr. Brane L. Leskosek Dr. Jure Dimec (Deputy Coordinator) Spain Dr.Eva Alloza Sweden Dr. Jessica Lindvall Dr. Elin Kronander Dr. Nina Norgren Switzerland Dr. Patricia Palagi UK Prof. Krzysztof Poterlowicz Dr. Alexia Cardona (Training Platform Coordinator) Observers Austria Cyprus Romania Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Events For training courses, see . Title Start date 13 May 2024 15 May 2024 16 May 2024 10 June 2024 12 September 2024 16 September 2024 1 October 2024 4 November 2024 5 November 2024 5 December 2024 8 April 2025 13 May 2025 4 November 2025 15 April 2026 12 May 2026 4 November 2026 For training courses, see . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here ELIXIR All Hands The All Hands meeting in Dublin, June 2023 The ELIXIR All Hands meeting is an annual event that brings togethermembers of the ELIXIR community. The goal of the event is to review ELIXIRs achievement and activity so far, and discus plan for thefuture. It includes: Presentations from theELIXIR Platforms and Communities Workshops where group within ELIXIR can plan, review and discus their work Keynote lecture by invited speaker Social event where member of ELIXIR can network and meet new people. The All Hands usually take place in June. The meeting is for ELIXIR member and invited guest only. All Hands 2024 The All Hands 2024 will take place in Uppsala, Sweden, 10 - 12 June 2024. See the page and the . Previous All Hands meeting Videos of presentation are available for the 2020 meeting. Other meeting have link to presentation slide and photographs. (Dublin) (Amsterdam) (online) (online) (Lisbon) (Berlin) (Rome) (Barcelona) (Hinxton) Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here BioHackathon Europe Each year, since 2018, ELIXIR organises , bringing together bioinformaticians from around the world. The BioHackathon offer an intense week of hacking, with over 160 international participants, to work on diverse and exciting projects. The week start with a half-day symposium to introduce these, followed by five day of hacking with one sole aim coding to address challenge in bioinformatics. BioHackathon Europe 2024 BioHackathon Europe 2024 will take place 4 - 8 November, Campus Belloch, Barcelona. For detail see the . The deadline for project submission ha now closed, and this year's project will be announced in mid-May. Companies are welcome to participate. Contact the ELIXIR Industry Officer Despoina Sousoni (despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org) with any questions. Previous BioHackathons BH2023: | | | BH2022: | | | BH2021: | | | BH2020: | | BH2019: | | | BH2018: | | Contact Contact for the organising committee: biohackathon-europe [at] elixir-europe.org (subject: BioHackathon%20Europe%20) The first BioHackathon Europe took place in Paris in 2018.It wa basedon the BioHackathons that The National Bioscience Database Center () and Database Center for Life Science () have organized in Japan since 2008 (see their). Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Bioinformatics Industry Forum With theELIXIR Bioinformatics Industry Forumwe want to build a community for bioinformaticians and technical specialist to discus visionary ideas, bottleneck and solution to some of the major challenge in the data driven life science sector. We want to bring people together who have thedrive to move science forward through a collaborative effort. 70 participant per event, on average 60 company joined our two F2F event 92% of participant would recommend the event to their colleague A very useful forum to connect with people from ELIXIR who are deeply embedded in the European space of bioinformatics while learning about latest advance in the field. - Sebastian Schwarz (Data Platform Strategy Lead, Owkin) A wonderful event, really excellent talk covering a range of relevant challenge which our community need to think carefully about. And networking is always invaluable! - Anonymous Thank you providing such a brilliant forum for discussion. I have many action and people to follow up with. - Anonymous Enquiries about the Forum Dr. Despoina Sousoni ELIXIR Industry Officer Wellcome Genome Campus CB10 1SD Hinxton, UK despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org Previous Forums 21 November 2023 11 October 2022 28 April 2020 7 May 2019 Previous webinars 23 June 2021 19 May 2021 29 October 2020 23 June 2020 28 May 2020 5 May 2020 Industry job Browse job in industry and advertise your own job for free on or . Training Access all our training course and material at the . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Innovation and SME Forum There are plenty of opportunity to network at our SME event In order to support our ELIXIR member to engage with industry and to give Small to Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) a stage to present their innovative ideas, ELIXIR host a series of specialised events. These Innovation and SME Forums provide company with the opportunity of learning more about the emerging ELIXIR service and forge strong link with the local representative running these services. So far, more than 800 representative from various company and research institute have exchanged knowledge with ELIXIR partner across Europe at our events, including small startups, SMEs, large pharmaceutical company and IT service providers. 90% would recommend the Forums to their colleague 96% thought the event met their need 87% felt the event gave them good networking opportunity 50/50 mix of attendee from private sector and academia (Source: survey of attendees) For enquiry regarding the Innovation and SME Forum please email despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org. Previous Forums 13 April 2023 Utrecht, Netherlands 22 September 2022 Sitges, Spain 17 May 2022 13 September 2021 10 March 2021 13 January 2021 29 January 2020 Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom 27 November 2019 Milan, Italy 10 October 2019 Utrecht, Netherlands 5 March 2019 Stockholm, Sweden 15 October 2018 Frankfurt, Germany 23 January 2018 Cambridge, United Kingdom 23 January 2018 Cambridge, United Kingdom 14 November 2017 Paris, France 13 November 2017 Paris, France 13 November 2017 Paris, France 9 October 2017 Brussels, Belgium 9 October 2017 Brussels, Belgium 9 October 2017 Brussels, Belgium 6 June 2017 Barcelona, Spain 27 February 2017 Finland 12 May 2016 Oslo, Norway 18 March 2015 Wageningen, Netherlands 24 November 2014 Copenhagen, Denmark Industry job Browse job in industry and advertise your own job for free on or . Training Access all our training course and material at the . Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here News Search by keyword Category <Any>Platforms-Interoperability-Data-Compute-Tools-TrainingCommunities-3D-BioInfo-Human Data-Galaxy-Human Copy Number Variation-Intrinsically Disordered Proteins-Marine Metagenomics-Metabolomics-Microbial Biotechnology-Plant Sciences-Proteomics-Rare DiseasesInnovation and industryCOVID-19 ELIXIR Node <Any>ELIXIR Belgium ELIXIR CyprusELIXIR Czech RepublicELIXIR DenmarkELIXIR EstoniaELIXIR FinlandELIXIR FranceELIXIR GermanyELIXIR GreeceELIXIR HungaryELIXIR Ireland ELIXIR IsraelELIXIR ItalyELIXIR LuxembourgELIXIR NetherlandsELIXIR NorwayELIXIR PortugalELIXIR SloveniaELIXIR SpainELIXIR SwedenELIXIR SwitzerlandELIXIR UKEMBL-EBI ELIXIR welcome three new Focus Groups: Learning Paths, Professionalising Careers in Research Infrastructures and Pathogens Data. ELIXIR Focus Groups are time-limited group bringing people together around a particular topic, typically to address emerging area of interest. Focus Groups are open... Posted: Fri 19 April 2024 Two new Communities have been formed in ELIXIR: Research Data Management (RDM) and Microbiome. ELIXIR Communities bring together expert across ELIXIR Nodes and external partner to coordinate activity within specific areas. The addition of two Communities brings the number to... Posted: Tue 2 April 2024 Today, 1 March 2024, the ELIXIR Hub welcome Tim Hubbard in his new role a ELIXIR Director. Andy Smith remains Interim Director until 31 May, with responsibility gradually transitioning to Tim. Tim join ELIXIR from King's College London where he... Posted: Fri 1 March 2024 An ELIXIR-funded collaboration with the Bio Network for Training (BioNT) ha resulted in a report on digital skill training demand and guideline covering training delivery. These output will help target future bioinformatics training to area of greatest need and boost... Posted: Fri 23 February 2024 ELIXIR ha launched eight project addressing the scientific and technological ambition of it new Scientific Programme for 2024 to 2028. Further project covering the Programmes Node and people development objective will be launched later this year. The project were launched... Posted: Fri 2 February 2024 Today, ELIXIR announces the start of the EU-funded ELIXIR-STEERS project, a three-year initiative with a budget of 4M. The project is a collaboration between all ELIXIR Nodes, encompassing 36 institute across 23 countries, plus EMBL-EBI. It aim to enhance large-scale,... Posted: Thu 1 February 2024 Autumn 2023 wa busy for the ELIXIR industry programme: the annual ELIXIR Bioinformatics and Industry Forum (EBIF) wa held in London in November and ELIXIR presented at two industry conferences, BioTechX and Bio-IT World . The main focus of the... Posted: Thu 18 January 2024 Following release of the ELIXIR Scientific Programme 2024-28, co-leads for two of the three scientific priority area have been announced. The third priority, human data and translational research, is to be led by the ELIXIR Hub. The three scientific priority... Posted: Fri 12 January 2024 ELIXIRs performance ha been commended in a monitoring exercise associated with it ESFRI (European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures) landmark status. ESFRI landmark status is conferred on reference research infrastructure considered pillar in the European Research Area landscape who offer... Posted: Fri 5 January 2024 ELIXIR ha announced the life science data and interoperability resource joining it prestigious list of Core Data Resources, ELIXIR Deposition Databases, and Recommended Interoperability Resources. ELIXIR Core Data Resources are European life science data resource (deposition archive and knowledge bases)... Posted: Thu 14 December 2023 ELIXIR, the European life science data infrastructure, is ten year old this month. The infrastructure wa launched on 18 December 2013 following the ratification of the ELIXIR Consortium Agreement by five country and EMBL (European Molecular Biology Laboratory). Over this... Posted: Tue 5 December 2023 ELIXIR ha published it new Scientific Programme, setting out the European life science data infrastructure vision for the coming five years. The Scientific Programme form ELIXIRs strategy and set out it ambition and goal until 2028. The ELIXIR Programme is... Posted: Mon 4 December 2023 The ELIXIR Board ha appointed Tim Hubbard a the next ELIXIR Director. Tim brings a wealth of scientific, technical and management experience and is currently Professor of Bioinformatics in the Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics at King's College London,... Posted: Fri 1 December 2023 Bringing 350 bioinformaticians together, BioHackathon Europe 2023 kicked off on 30 October 2023 in Barcelona, Spain. Over the week, participant onsite and online worked collaboratively on 35 bioinformatics projects, ranging from genomic and health data to FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable... Posted: Thu 16 November 2023 Romania ha joined ELIXIR a an Observer, following approval by the ELIXIR Board on 30 October 2023. Observer status enables the Romanian bioinformatics community to engage more deeply with other ELIXIR Nodes and facilitates transition towards full ELIXIR Membership, which... Posted: Mon 30 October 2023 A two-year ELIXIR-funded implementation study ha made it easier for scientific computing centre to adopt and deploy container protocol and services. Containerisation is a technology that make possible the reproducible execution of software and workflow across diverse computing environments. Containers... Posted: Mon 23 October 2023 ELIXIR ha released an Impact Toolkit providing practical guidance on the process of impact evaluation. Although primarily an internal guide for the ELIXIR community, the toolkit contains resource which may be of interest to those undertaking impact evaluation in a... Posted: Fri 6 October 2023 The ELIXIR team who travelled to Australia. Second left to right: Bjrn Grning, Frederik Coppens, Paul De Geest, Katharina Heil, Helge Hecht, Laila Los, Helena Rasche, Saskia Hiltemann, Anthony Bretaudeau , Marie Josse, Krzysztof Poterlowicz, Katarzyna Kamieniecka and Alireza Heidari... Posted: Thu 7 September 2023 In June 2023, member of ELIXIR Portugal and ELIXIR Switzerland visited Curitiba, Brazil, to collaborate on training in data management and Findable Accessible Interoperable and Reusable (FAIR) data with Brazilian research and innovation organisations. The six-month project ran for the... Posted: Mon 4 September 2023 The ELIXIR Board is inviting candidate from life science company to join the ELIXIR Industry Advisory Committee (IAC) . Taking into consideration the current distribution of expertise within the committee, application are particularly encouraged from expert in the field of... Posted: Fri 1 September 2023 Pages1 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Intranet The ELIXIR intranet is for member of ELIXIR (those who work in institute that are part of an ). If you are a member of ELIXIR, then you need to join a group before logging in. This creates an account for you on the website, and add you to the group's mailing list. If you are not a member of ELIXIR, you can join a Community and most Focus Groups. You will be added to the group's mailing list but will not be able to log in to the website. For other way you can work with ELIXIR, see . Join a group There are three type of group you can join: , and . Platforms are restricted to ELIXIR member (people who work in an institute that is part of ELIXIR). Find the group you are interested in, go to the group page, and click the "Join" button at the bottom of the page. Platforms Communities Focus Groups About the Life Science (LS) login Contact support [at] aai.lifescience-ri.eu if you have any problem joining a group or logging in. Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Three new Focus Groups to advance professional career and pathogen data sharing ELIXIR welcome three new Focus Groups: Learning Paths, Professionalising Careers in Research Infrastructures and Pathogens Data. ELIXIR Focus Groups are time-limited group bringing people together around a particular topic, typically to address emerging area of interest. Focus Groups are open to any member of ELIXIR and, in some cases, external parties. The addition of three new group brings the total number of Focus Groups in ELIXIR to 11. The three new group all support the aim of ELIXIR new Science Programme 2024-28. Learning path are structured route guiding individual through a sequence of course or training materials, designed to make it easier to achieve specific learning goals. The Learning Path Focus Group, along with the Professionalising Careers in Research Infrastructures Focus Group, further the aim of ELIXIR new Science Programme 2024-28 by promoting professional development. The Pathogens Data Focus Group advance a new scientific priority area in the Programme Biodiversity, Food Security and Pathogens. Learning Paths The group will share knowledge, idea and experience to identify needs, devise solution and advocate for the widespread adoption of learning path across ELIXIR. Led by Alexia Cardona (ELIXIR UK), Loredana Le Pera (ELIXIR Italy) and Jessica Lindvall (ELIXIR Sweden) it ha two main goals: Explore strategy for the development of structured learning programme Promote the use of learning path guideline in ELIXIR These activity will address the current lack of guidance in ELIXIR for developing curriculum and structured training programs, with the overall aim of enhancing the experience of learners. Professionalising Careers in Research Infrastructures The group will support the career development and improve recognition of research infrastructure role such a trainer, data steward, project manager, software engineer, developer and community manager. Initially, the group will conduct a survey of job advertisement within ELIXIR to classify role analysing specifications, grade and skills. The mapping exercise will improve the standardisation of job title and clarify the relationship among different roles. The group is led by Lisanna Paladin (ELIXIR Germany), Emma Karoune (ELIXIR UK) and Jessica Lindvall (ELIXIR Sweden). Pathogens Data The Pathogen Data Focus Group will support global genomics-based surveillance and research of infectious diseases, by laying the groundwork for a distributed and interoperable network of regional and national pathogen data platforms. This will be achieved by: Agreeing on data, metadata and analysis standard and promoting their use and reuse Promoting FAIR and equitable data sharing Proposing benchmark datasets and quality assessment Building capacity for pandemic preparedness through training, maturity model and tool Liaising with global pathogen genomics epidemiology initiative and entity such a PHA4GE, GMI, WHO, ECDC The group is led by Aitana Neves (ELIXIR Switzerland), Isabel Cuesta De La Plaza (ELIXIR Spain) and Erik Hjerde (ELIXIR Norway). Find out more Fri 19 April 2024 Related news 23 February 2024 2 February 2024 6 October 2023 19 June 2023 2 November 2022 Related event Rome, Italy 7 March 2023 20 September 2022 29 March 2022 BRUSSELS, Belgium 16 March 2022 Roscoff, France 9 January 2022 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here ELIXIR welcome two new Communities - Research Data Management and Microbiome Two new Communities have been formed in ELIXIR: Research Data Management (RDM) and Microbiome. ELIXIR Communities bring together expert across ELIXIR Nodes and external partner to coordinate activity within specific areas. The addition of two Communities brings the number to 17, spanning domain such a human data, single-cell omics and Galaxy. Research Data Management (RDM) The RDM Community focus on implementing FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) and open science principles. Led by Munazah Andrabi (ELIXIR UK), Flora D'Anna (ELIXIR Belgium), Niclas Jareborg (ELIXIR Sweden) and Mijke Jetten (ELIXIR Netherlands), it aim to unify RDM resource across ELIXIR leading to more sustainable data management practices. The Community will concentrate on four areas: People network: Establish a forum for life science RDM professional to exchange knowledge and develop RDM service capacity across ELIXIR Nodes. RDM knowledge: Coordinate effort to ensure RDM ecosystem content is up-to-date and collect input for enhancing the flow and FAIRness of data from research to repositories. RDM training: Provide a platform for exchanging best practice among RDM trainers, developing training materials, and establishing RDM learning paths. External stakeholders: Manage relationship with external stakeholder involved in RDM across ELIXIR Platforms Communities and Focus Groups. Microbiome The Microbiome Community aim to enhance microbiome research through the promotion of standard for sequence analysis and multi-omics integration. It focus on identifying training gaps, methods, and reference database and aim to scale bioinformatics infrastructure for microbiome research. The Community co-leads are Brnice Batut (ELIXIR France), Rob Finn (EMBL-EBI) and Eric Pelletier (ELIXIR France). The Community is an evolution of the Marine Metagenomics Community, and ha three broad goals: Develop standard for FAIR microbiome analyses: Establish controlled vocabularies, metadata quality checks, international collaboration for e-infrastructure harmonisation and dedicated training module for microbiome metadata. Enhance tool and workflows: Improve annotation tools, leverage benchmarking initiatives, and share workflow design for microbiome research, promoting best practice and federated computation. Build capacity and community engagement: Create a catalogue of training resources, address knowledge gap and foster a community of trainer to represent the Microbiome Community's complexity and needs, including connecting with the industry and representing the Community at international levels. About ELIXIR Communities tell you what a Community is, who can join, what the benefit are, and how Communities are structured. It also contains link to key document related to ELIXIR Communities, and explains the responsibility and benefit of Community membership. A new version ha been released for 2024. Find out more and and Tue 2 April 2024 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Tim Hubbard start a ELIXIR Director Today, 1 March 2024, the ELIXIR Hub welcome Tim Hubbard in his new role a ELIXIR Director. Andy Smith remains Interim Director until 31 May, with responsibility gradually transitioning to Tim. Tim join ELIXIR from King's College London where he wa Professor of Bioinformatics in the Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics. He ha also acted a Senior Advisor at Genomics England and Associate Director of the London region of Health Data Research UK (HDR UK). Andy welcomed Tim to ELIXIR, saying We are delighted that Tim ha joined ELIXIR a our new Director. We are at an important phase in ELIXIRs operations, with the implementation of our 2024-28 Scientific Programme now underway. Tims long-term vision and experience in bioinformatics service delivery will help ensure that these activity bring value to ELIXIRs stakeholder across Europe and beyond. Alexander Goesmann, Chair of the ELIXIR Board, commented The Board warmly welcome Tim a ELIXIRs new Director. Based on his many year of experience, we are confident that ELIXIR is in capable hands. The Board look forward to working with Tim and wish him well a he start in his new role. Tim said Its exciting to be starting at ELIXIR today at the beginning of the 2024-28 Programme, with new European-wide initiative in molecular data, software and services. There are huge opportunity for the future use of biomedical data, such a through the increasingly pervasive impact of artificial intelligence and initiative such a the European Health Data Space. The ELIXIR infrastructure can play a major enabling role, helping maximise the benefit for all. Tim replaces Niklas Blomberg, ELIXIRs founding Director, who started a new role a Executive Director of the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI) in January 2024. Find out more Fri 1 March 2024 Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Get involved Contact an ELIXIR group:see the , and pages. The contact person for each group is at the bottom of each page. Join an ELIXIR group: if you are part of the ELIXIR infrastructure or work with ELIXIR the you can and it mailing list. If you are already registered you can go to the to manage your memberships. Contact your local Node: the contains link to the Node websites, which contain email address and form you can use to contact that Node. Discover how your country can become a member: if you are interested in joining ELIXIR a a member state see and contact Andrew Smith (andrew.smith [at] elixir-europe.org). Find out about international engagement: if you are from a country outside Europe and want to find more about ELIXIR please contact Corinne Martin (corinne.martin [at] elixir-europe.org), and see our . Participate in industry events: contact Despoina Sousoni (despoina.sousoni [at] elixir-europe.org), , or come and meet u at one our . See also the . Follow u on Twitter: Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here ELIXIR privacy statement This Privacy Policy explains what personal data is collected by ELIXIR, why we collect your data, how it is processed, and how we keep it secure. Information on data transfer to third-party processor acting on our behalf is provided below. ELIXIR operates under the data protection framework provided by - known a - which is adapted to the need of international scientific research and reflects the principle of European data protection law. Details of your right under IP68 are summarised below, along with the contact detail if you have any query or request concerning your data: For privacy information relating to cookies, see the . Way that we collect personal data: The public website () The data we collect: if you browse the public website then the following information is logged by our server: your browser, operating system, IP address, the date and time of your visit, the page visited, and the amount of data transferred. Why we collect the data: the data is used to monitor for suspicious activity (e.g. attempt to hack the site), to diagnose problem on the site, and to create anonymous usage statistics. We do not attempt to identify or profile people based on this data. Lawful basis for processing the data: processing this data is necessary for our legitimate interest of allowing the website to remain secure and robust. Who ha access to the data: the personal data is only accessible to staff in the ELIXIR Hub who work on the website and the Linode support team (see 'Third party processors' below). Data transfer: this data is located on a server in London, UK, and is not transferred to any other country. Data retention: we will keep web log 30 day and security log 90 day before anonymising them. Third party processors: the ELIXIR web server wa created using the cloud hosting service . The personal data outlined above is stored on the ELIXIR Hub's Linode server. The Linode support team have access to the server so they can fix problem on it and upgrade it, but the personal data is not processed further by them or transferred to another organisation. See the for how Linode comply with the GDPR. For privacy question concerning Linode contact privacy [at] linode.com, and see the . ELIXIR-coordinated project ELIXIR coordinate project funded by organisation such a the and the (see the for the current projects). Participants in these project are included on the relevant project mailing list to ensure that they can coordinate their work. Project Data Management Plan (DMP): Following EC and IMI requirements, a project data management plan is mandatory for each project, and accessible via the EC portal. For additional information please contact grant [at] elixir-europe.org. The data we collect: the contact detail (names and email addresses) of the project participants. Participants are also asked for their institute address and their phone number, in case we need to send document or contact them urgently (e.g. to tell them about change to meetings), but these are optional fields. Lawful basis for processing the data: legitimate interest, since we need to communicate with participant in order to run the project, and the participant need to communicate with each other to coordinate their task within the projects. Who ha access to the data: other member of the project have access to the participants' contact information (name and email address). Data transfer: Your data is not transferred from ELIXIR to any other organisation. Data retention: your data will be retained for the duration of the project and deleted from the project record according to the obligation set by funders to keep record for auditing purposes. Unsubscribing: if you would like to leave the project and unsubscribe from any project mailing list mailing list please email grant [at] elixir-europe.org. The intranet and internal mailing list The intranet () is a restricted part of the main ELIXIR website (see the section above) and sits on the same server. The intranet is open to member of ELIXIR and it governing body only. When you join a group on the intranet you automatically get subscribed to that group's mailing list. You also automatically become a member of any parent group and their mailing lists. For example, if you joined the Bioschemas group you would automatically join the Bioschemas mailing list. You would also become a member of the Bioschemas parent group, Interoperability, and join the Interoperability mailing list. This functionality is designed to keep you informed of closely related matter across ELIXIR. The purpose of the intranet and the mailing list is to help people across the organisation work together. You log in to the intranet using the , which allows you to log in using third party identity provider (e.g. using your Google account or your university ID). The data we collect: the Life Science Login provides u with your name, email and your ELIXIR group memberships. In addition you may enter more information about yourself in your user profile page. Why we collect the data: to allow you to log in to the intranet and see material restricted to ELIXIR member and collaborators, to subscribe you to the mailing list of your groups, and to create a user profile page for you so that you and other member of ELIXIR can see who is a member of which group. We also collect email so people who have created new group content on the site (like an event or document) can alert other member of the group that this ha happened. Emails are not shown to other member of the intranet. Lawful basis for processing the data: legitimate interest, since in order to carry out your work a part of ELIXIR you need to be informed of deadline and meeting concerning your work, and need to have access to information restricted to the intranet. If you stop working for ELIXIR, please email webmaster [at] elixir-europe.org so that we can remove you from the group and mailing lists. Who ha access to the data: other member of the intranet can view your user profile information and group memberships, but only website administrator at the ELIXIR Hub can view your email address. Data transfer: this data is located on a server in London, UK. Your data is not transferred from the ELIXIR intranet to anywhere else. Data retention: your data will be deleted after two year of inactivity (of not logging in to the website or sending email to your groups). It will also be deleted once we are informed that you have stopped working for ELIXIR. Life Science Login: the ELIXIR intranet us the Life Science Login to enable people to log in. For information on how your data is processed by the Life Science Login and who to contact about it see the . You can view the information that the Life Science Login hold about you by going to your . Unsubscribing: if you would like to unsubscribe from a mailing list please email webmaster [at] elixir-europe.org and we will remove you from the appropriate group, or from our system altogether. Alternatively, you can log in to the intranet and user the to manage your group/mailing list memberships. Public newsletter These include the Informed and the Industry stakeholder newsletters. We use the mailing service to send these. The data we collect: the sign-up form for newsletter requires your email address, with optional field for your name and organisation. In addition, Mailchimp record which newsletter you opened and which link you clicked. Why we collect the data: to enable u to send emails, to measure the success of the emails, to help u provide report to funders, and to help u improve the newsletter Lawful basis for processing the data: this data is only processed with your explicit consent. The sign-up form asks for this consent. Who ha access to the data: the personal data is only accessible to staff in the ELIXIR Hub who manage the email (members of the External Relations team). Data transfer: MailChimp is based in the United States and the data is held on server located there. Data retention: We will keep your personal data for a long a you wish to remain on the mailing list. Third party processors: the mailing list service is run by MailChimp. MailChimp is certified to the and the Swiss-US Privacy Shield. ELIXIR Events Please see , updated June 2023. Your right Under our data protection framework - IP68 you have a number of right concerning your data (see the for an overview of these). If you want to exercise these right (e.g. to access, modify, or erase your data) then please contact the . You have the right to: Not be subject to decision based solely on an automated processing of data (i.e. without human intervention) without you having your view taken into consideration. Request at reasonable interval and without excessive delay or expense, information about the personal data processed about you. Under your request we will inform you in writing about, for example, the origin of the personal data or the preservation period. Request information to understand data processing activity when the result of these activity are applied to you. Object at any time to the processing of your personal data unless we can demonstrate that we have legitimate reason to process your personal data. Request free of charge and without excessive delay rectification or erasure of your personal data if we have not been processing it respecting the EMBL Internal Policy for Data Protection. It must be clarified that right 4 and 5 are only available whenever the processing of your personal data is not necessary to: Comply with a legal obligation. Perform a task carried out in the public interest. Exercise authority a a data controller. Archive for purpose in the public interest, or for historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes. Establish, exercise or defend legal claims. If you want to exercise these right then please contact the Data Protection Officer (see 'How to contact us' below). Data controller Tim Hubbard, ELIXIR Director EMBL-EBI, Wellcome Genome Campus, CB10 1SD Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, UK How to contact u Legally ELIXIR form part of the and therefore us EMBL's legal personality. EMBL Data Protection Officer Tel: +49 6221 387-0 Email: dpo [at] embl.org EMBL Heidelberg, Meyerhofstrae 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany LEGAL Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein. Search form Search You are here Cookies Cookies are small file that are placed in your browser by website that you visit. They are widely used to do thing like store preferences, track visitor activity, and enable log-in areas. This site doe not use tracking cookies. The cooky that may be set on your browser are described below: Authentication cooky When you log in to the intranet, cooky need to be set so that the website server know you are logged in. If the cooky were not set, you would find yourself logged out each time you went to a different page. These cooky are: SimpleSAMLAuthToken SimpleSAMLSessionID SSESS + [long number] The first two of these may persist after you have logged out. This is to make it quicker for you to log in next time, although they will expire after three weeks. These cooky are essential for the function of the intranet. If you do not log in to the intranet, then these cooky will not be set. YouTube and Twitter cooky By default, an embedded YouTube video or Twitter timeline will set tracking cooky in your browser. We have turned this functionality off. The YouTube video on this site, for example, are served from youtube-nocookie.com, rather than youtube.com. Note that even in this "privacy-enhanced mode" YouTube may set cookies, but these are claimed to be essential for their service. See their . These cooky will only be set on page containing a YouTube video. More information For more information about privacy and the ELIXIR website, see our . LEGAL Austria (Observer) Romania (Observer) Quick link ELIXIR, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SD, UK +44 (0)1223 492 670 info [at] elixir-europe.org Copyright | | ELIXIR is partly funded by the European Commission within the Research Infrastructures programme of Horizon 2020. The sole responsibility for the content of this webpage lie with ELIXIR. It doe not necessarily reflect the opinion of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained therein.