Platform for data discovery. The EMIF Data Catalogue is a text-book example of EMIFs mission to improve identification, access and assessment, and (re)use of health data within the European Union. Toggle navigation EMIF CATALOGUE Access the EMIF Catalogue via this and more information below During it project lifetime, the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) ha developed and made the EMIF Data Catalogue publicly available to the research community. The EMIF Data Catalogue is a text-book example of EMIFs mission to improve identification, access and assessment, and (re)use of health data within the European Union. The EMIF Catalogue allows user to explore population-based (e.g. Electronic Health Record (EHR)-derived, Regional databases, etc.) and cohort-derived (predominately within Alzheimers Disease) data source who have consented to provide such information for the purpose of bona fide researcher wanting to explore potential data partner for studies. As of June 2018, 18 population-based and 55 cohort-based data partner are contained within the Catalogue, from across 14 country collaborating within EMIF. There are currently over 800 unique user and the Catalogue is home to 8 different community so far (eg. EPAD, MOCHA, ADVANCE, ). The latter clearly indicates that there is a tremendous need for the EMIF Catalogue. The Catalogue initially offered only high-level meta data information on the data source, but additional tool have been developed and installed to allow data source suitability evaluation and to initiate new research study with the data source in a secure environment. We would welcome enquiry related to the Catalogue, and indeed any feedback from user following access approval (questions or feedback can be via, or from within the Catalogue). Access to the Catalogue is via the following steps: Please access the Catalogue . When accessing the Catalogue log-in front-end page, please click Create Account and follow instruction provided, then Sign In. Following Sign In, a user will be able to access the EHR-derived and/or cohort-derived community pending approval by the Community Manager. User support is via the left-hand navigation panel, inclusive of a help function. On behalf of EMIF we hope that the EMIF Catalogue will be a significant asset to the EU research community, and we look forward to it continued development and use, eventually within a broader research platform and communities. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 30-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation HOME Welcome to the website of the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) project. EMIF wa a public-private consortium with 57 partner and ran for 5,5 years, ending June 2018. During this time span, EMIF ha successfully improved access to human health data via providing tool and workflow to discover, assess, access and (re)use human health data. Access the EMIF Data Catalogue EMIF Platform EHR Video This animation provides an overview of a service approach from the IMI project with EHR-derived, population data Published 02/05/2015 09:18 EMIF Platform Cohort Data Video This video provides an overview of a service approach from the IMI project with cohort-derived data Published 02/05/2015 09:18 All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 27-07-2021. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation ABOUT The combination of rapidly increasing medical knowledge and advance in information technology is allowing researcher to use human health data in way that were previously unimaginable. Increasingly, the challenge is to find sufficient data to fuel this research. At the same time, huge volume of suitable data are already being collected and stored electronically, in routine Electronic Healthcare Record (EHR) databases, research-driven cohort study associated with biobanks and other sources. However, because this data exists in disparate location and systems, it is generally used in isolation. It is rarely aggregated into larger datasets, meaning it full potential is not being realised. Additionally, privacy, legal and ethical issue related to data use also need to be properly addressed. EMIF Introductory Video This animation provides a brief introduction to the EMIF project and it key goal To help improve access to these patient-level data, the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) wa launched in January 2013. The EMIF project is a five-year project and during this time itwill develop common technical and governance solution and improve access and use of health data. To this aim, a common Information Framework () will link up and facilitate access to diverse medical and research data sources. To ensure immediate applicability, the EMIF project includes two specific therapeutic research topic that will help guide the development of the Information Framework: the onset of Alzheimers disease () and metabolic complication of obesity (). EMIF receives support from the Innovative Medicines Initiative Joint Undertaking (IMI-JU) under grant agreement n 115372, resource of which are composed of financial contribution from the European Unions Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) in kind contribution. Links to other relevant project :The EHR4CR project is one of the largest public-private partnership aiming at providing adaptable, reusable and scalable solution (tools and services) for reusing data from Electronic Health Record system for Clinical Research. Electronic Health Record (EHR) data offer large opportunity for the advancement of medical research, the improvement of healthcare, and the enhancement of patient safety :aims to show how robust new method of RWE collection and synthesis could be adopted earlier in pharmaceutical R&D and the healthcare decision making process (I~HD):The vision ofi~HD is to become the European organization of reference for guiding and catalyzing the best, most efficient and trustworthy us of health data and interoperability, for optimizing health and knowledge discovery :The EPAD project is part of a global effort in the fight against Alzheimers disease and is a major European initiative to create a novel environment for testing numerous intervention targeted at the prevention of Alzheimers dementia :Dementias PlatformUK is aUK powerhouse for dementia research designed tofast-track scientific understanding, treatment and the prevention of the disease EMIF Brochure now available for downloading A PDF version of the EMIF Brochure providing an overview of the main achievement to date. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 08-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF-PLATFORM EMIF Platform EMIF-Platform Project Overview EMIF ha ultimately build an integrated, efficient Information Framework for consistent re-use and exploitation of available patient-level data to support novel research. This will supportdata discovery,data evaluationand then(re)use. EMIF-Platform System Overview EMIF-Platform ha developed an IT platform allowing access to multiple, diverse data sources. The EMIF-Platform made this data available for browsing and allows exploitation in multiple way by the end user. EMIF-Platform ha leveraged data on more then 62 Million European adult and child by mean of federation of healthcare database and cohort from 7 different country (DK,IT, NL, UK, ES, EE), designed to be representative of the different type of existing data source (population-based registries, hospital-based databases, cohorts, national registries, biobanks, etc.). The EMIF Data Catalogue is now available outside of EMIF to bona fide researcher more information via . EMIF Platform EHR Video This video provides an overview of a service approach via EHR data post-IMI EMIF Platform Cohort Video This video provides an overview of a service approach via Cohort data post-IMI EMIF-Platform Objectives To achieve EMIF-Platform objectives, the project wa divided into eight work package (WP9-WP16 below). In addition, there are and to explore. EMIF-Platform Work Packages WP16 Use and sustainability models, community building & outreach WP15 Use and sustainability models, community building & outreach WP14 Architecture, solution development, security & privacy technology WP13 Analysis, processing & visualization method and tool WP12 Data extraction, benchmarking, aggregation & linkage WP11 Harmonization & Semantics WP10 Governance WP9 Framework Requirements& Evaluation EMIF-Platform Achievements Tool Development Key tool developed a data shop window to support the platform architecture, also being utilised by other initiative (ADVACE, MOCHA, IMI-EPAD, DP-UK) Development & integration of TASKA in the EMIF catalogue to manage the workflow. Common Data Model EMIF: OMOP-CDM, OHDSI Mapped 10 European Databases to the OMOP-CDM Contributes to the extension of the CDM and Standardized Vocabularies to accommodate the European data Supports the European OHDSI initiative to stimulate adoption of the CDM and collaboration across Europe Atlas ATLAS tool developed by OHDSI is used to conduct scientific analysis on standardized health data EMIF is evaluating the OHDSI tool in the EMIF community and is actively contributing to their further development Biomarker Discovery Raw cohort data integration and analysis via tranSMART and allied bioinformatics tooling development to support biomarker discovery in AD and metabolic disorder 3423 subject from 14 AD cohort harmonized Support of multi-omics data analysis. EMIF-Platform Tools Workflow Management Workflow Management Private Remote Research Environment (PRRE) Private Remote Research Environment (PRRE) Variable Selection Tool (VST) Variable Selection Tool (VST) ParticipantSelection Tool (PST) ParticipantSelection Tool (PST) CohortSelection Tool (CST; Catalogue) CohortSelection Tool (CST; Catalogue) Switchbox Switchbox Private Remote Research Environment (PRRE) Private Remote Research Environment (PRRE) Workflow Management Workflow Management OMOP CDM/OHDSI Tools OMOP CDM/OHDSI Tools EMIFCatalogue EMIFCatalogue Data extractiontooling Data extractiontooling Ethical Code of Practice (ECoP) Ethical Code of Practice (ECoP) EMIF-Platform Tools Governance & Security/Integration Layer Cohort architecture support EMIF-AD data discovery & (re)use workflow EHR architecture support generic data discovery & (re)use workflow Datare-use Dataaccess Dataassessment Datadiscovery Datare-use Dataaccess Dataassessment Datadiscovery EMIF-Platform Tools Governance & Security/Integration Layer Cohort architecture support EMIF-AD data discovery & (re)use workflow EHR architecture support generic data discovery & (re)use workflow Datare-use Dataaccess Dataassessment Datadiscovery Datare-use Dataaccess Dataassessment Datadiscovery WP 9 Framework requirement & evaluation Carlos Daz (Synapse) Peter Egger (GSK) Synapse (CO-LEAD), GSK (CO-LEAD), EMC, Janssen, UCL, PENTA, EMBL, EUROREC, UAVR, ULEIC, UPF, AP-HP, ARS, STIZON, AUH, GENOMEDICS, BIPS, PEDIANET, UTARTU, UNIMAN, BF, CUSTODIX, Pfizer, SERVIER, Amgen, UCB, MERCK, IDIAP JORDI GOL GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: To continuously elucidate user requirement and evaluate the EMIF-Platform a it is progressively developed and deployed. For each cycle of the work plan, ensure adequate input from prospective users, especially the present and future research projects, and input from EFPIA participants, a important future user of the platform. For each cycle of the work plan, evaluate from the user perspective the result of that cycle, feeding it back to the development work packages. WP 10 Governance, federation, DB fingerprinting, legal context & ethic Nigel Hughes (Janssen) - TBD (EMC) EMC (CO-LEAD), JANSSEN (CO-LEAD), SYNAPSE, UCL, PENTA, EMBL, EUROREC, UPF, ARS, STIZON, AUH, GENOMEDICS, BIPS, PEDIANET, UTARTU, UNIMAN, BF, GSK, SERVIER, BI, Amgen, AE. IDIAP Jordi Gol GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are to: Provide detailed information (the fingerprint) of each participating database with respect to population included in that database, the data available in each database, the local data model, the mechanism generating the data, and the ability to address specific re-use issue (such a ability to contact the GP or patients, or inclusion of patient in clinical trials). Specify the procedure that will be followed in the governance of the federation, including the required safeguard and criterion for admission. Define the different type of user of the EMIF-Platform, the level of access for each type of user, and the procedure and safeguard to handle permissions. Ensure that the project followsethicalprinciples and conforms to relevant international and national regulation in this regard. WP 11 Harmonization & semantics Dipak Kalra (UCL) Michel Van Speybroeck (Janssen) UCL (CO-LEAD), JANSSEN (CO-LEAD), EMC, UPF, AP-HP, ARS, STIZON, AUH, GENOMEDICS, BIPS, PEDIANET, UTARTU, UNIMAN, BF, GSK, SERVIER, ROCHE, IDIAP Jordi Gol GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: To analyse the harmonisation and semantic needs, and devise a common framework of reference that guide all further interoperability work in the project, including metadata. To develop a common data model to be used throughout the EMIF-Platform architecture to represent query and result set for aggregate and patient-level data. To design and implement service to support specific cross-mappings between terminology used for clinical/medical terms, medicinal product and unit of measurement. WP 12 Data extraction, benchmarking, aggregation & linkage Peter Rijnbeek (EMC) Martijn Schuemie (Janssen) EMC (CO-LEAD), JANSSEN (CO-LEAD), UCL, UPF, ARS, STIZON, AUH, GENOMEDICS, PEDIANET, UTARTU, UNIMAN, BF, CUSTODIX, GSK, SERVIER, BI, Amgen, ROCHE, IDIAP Jordi Gol GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: To develop a common framework for extracting data across different data sources. To benchmark the result of the extraction across different data source with the explicit objective to account for any difference observed. To provide tool for linking data between different source that will allow individual to be tracked through those data sources, taking into account the transition from childhood to adulthood. To aggregate data in order to comply with the privacy and governance rule that control the re-use of data. WP 13 Analysis, processing & visualization method and tool Alvis Brazma (EMBL) Rudi Verbeeck (Janssen) EMBL (CO-LEAD), Janssen (CO-LEAD), EMC, UCL, UAVR, ULEIC, UPF, UTARTU, UNIMAN, GSK, SERVIER, PFIZER GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: To develop dedicated data analysis algorithm and tool to help exploitation of the data made available through the platfom, leveraging and re-using when possible already existing tools; To develop visualisation tool for EHR based on a generalisation of the concept of genome browser and distributed annotation systems; To develop specific analysis tool for broad translational research datasets used in the vertical project and apply them to data analysis problem arising in the context of such projects. WP 14 Architecture, solution development, security & privacy technology Jos Luis Oliveira (UAVR) Philippe Baudoux (UCB) UAVR (CO-LEAD), UCB (CO-LEAD), EMC, Synapse, UCL, EMBL, EUROREC, ULEIC, UPF, PEDIANET, UNIMAN, CUSTODIX, Janssen, SERVIER, Amgen GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: To engineer an ICT infrastructure for the federation of resources, including dynamic support for common data model and variable operation procedures. To provide the technical infrastructure for secure, cross-project data exchange. To create a development environment for the EMIF-Platform ecosystem, enabling the creation of software such a a clinical information browser, evolving biomedical knowledge base and Private Remote Research Environments. WP 15 Use and sustainability models, community building & outreach Eva Molero (Synapse) Bart Vannieuwenhuyse (Janssen) Synapse (CO-LEAD), Janssen (CO-LEAD), EMC, UCL, PENTA, EMBL, EUROREC, UAVR, ULEIC, UPF, AP-HP, ARS, STIZON, AUH, GENOMEDICS, BIPS, PEDIANET, UTARTU, UNIMAN, BF, CUSTODIX, GSK, SERVIER, Amgen, ROCHE, IDIAP Jordi Gol GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: To analyze the need of different key stakeholder (potential user of the platform) with the aim to develop a sustainability model (business model) that serf those need while being acceptable to data custodian To develop and test different sustainability model derived from the analysis above, which ensure the long-term maintenance and operation of the information framework developed during the project. Outreach: WP15 also aim at connecting EMIF with other relevant project (IMI and other) and ha the ambition to identify and connect new data source to the network. WP 16 Use and sustainability models, community building & outreach Carlos Daz (Synapse) Bart Vannieuwenhuyse (Janssen) All EMIF partner GOALS & OBJECTIVES The objective are: The overall objective of this WP is to ensure the successful implementation of this project on a scientific, financial and management level. To achieve this we will focus on 4 main area : Ensure efficient management of scientific activity and financial allocation/reporting, and organisation of project meeting Ensure effective communication between partner to support sharing best practice, maximise synergy and prevent duplication Designing and implementing dissemination plan and communication strategy Managing of Intellectual Property right and deriving value of foreground information generated Ensure appropriate risk management, particularly for joint risk across the whole programme and at the interface of the three topic EMIF Code of Practice (ECoP) The EMIF platform can only be used for: assessing the feasibility of a study and conducting research by bona-fide research organisation with the objective of discovering new knowledge intended for the public good and made publicly accessible (i.e., published) ECoP wa developed in order to help ensure that: the EMIF Platform and Services are used in way that comply with legislation, the 2018 European GDPR and policy on data protection EMIF upholds best practice in the protection of personal privacy and information governance EMIF promotes best practice in the conduct of clinical research using health data, for the public good Data source Data user will always have autonomy over which data are made accessible and for which type of research must adhere to the ethical rule and privacy protection policy of each data source will always determine ethical acceptability and scientific validity may only use the data for the specific agreed research purpose must be transparent about their data must acknowledge the source of the data they have used, and EMIF EMIF Catalogue The key idea of the EMIF Catalogue is to allow researcher to find specific database aligned with their research purposes, providing a summarized overview of a number of geographically scattered healthcare databases. To accomplish this, the EMIF Catalogue is a flexible web system supported by the Community concept, i.e., a group joining database and user with the same clinical interests. Features: Community-based access and management Database fingerprinting Free text and advanced search Suitability assessment (through Jerboa and Achilles) Distributed management of group and data Role-Based access control (RBAC) Open architecture (plugin-based) TASKA TASKA is an innovative platform designed to streamline the creation of modular and easily extendable workflow to manage data extraction and handling general work processes. It is based on Software-as-a-Service approach, making it more versatile and easy to integrate by third party applications. This platform allows several user to collaborate and interact in the creation and execution of distributed workflows, relying on an easy-to-use interface for managing complex procedures. Features: Easy-to-use visual editor Task definition, with inputs, outputs, and dependency Questionnaire task Workflow scheme (templates) Running study (workflows) Task assignment and notification Web service that allow the system to operate without any interface Jerboa Reloaded Work package 12 (Data extraction, benchmarking, aggregation & linkage) is mainly involved in the important and challenging task to develop the complex scenario when informed consent cannot be obtained. For example, in the case of electronic healthcare record (EHR) collected from general practitioners, access to patent data will often be restricted to only anonymized and aggregated data. The Jerboa Reloaded extraction tool is developed in the EMIF project to support the data extraction and processing from the EHR databases. It is used in a so-called distributed network design, i.e. it run de-identification, linkage, analysis and aggregation locally at each data source site. Jerboa run a script that contains all parameter of a specific study design. This ha the advantage that the local analysis are performed in a common, standard way and are not subject to small difference in implementation by local statisticians, and that for each study-only data necessary for that particular study is shared in analytical dataset. OCTOPUS Private Remote Research Environment The OCTOPUS infrastructure is used a a prototype for the private remote research environment (PRRE) in WP12. It allows for secured file transfer from and to the data custodian and can be used to collaborate on the aggregated data generated by Jerboa Reloaded. The OCTOPUS remote research environment is a socio-technological framework that ha been developed by Erasmus MC in the past, and ha already proven it value in various projects. It stimulates geographically dispersed research group to collaborate and ha resulted in consortium that were engaged in all the phase of the drug safety research. To achieve a successful and sustainable collaboration, database custodian should be more than just data suppliers. As most of the custodian reside in research institutes, analytical task should be distributed a well. The main purpose of OCTOPUS is to stimulate such collaborative drug safety research in a secured environment. In EMIF a dedicated PRRE is currently being developed that is more scalable and further optimized based on the experience with OCTOPUS. Participant Selection Tool The Participant Selection Tool allows researcher to get an overview of patient profile in a given cohort, filtering on a set of predefined key characteristics. The tool ha currently been built to provide this capability for AD cohort data sets. The user interface is designed to minimise the learning curve. Federated data source are represented in a single tabular or graphical view. Filtering on categorical, date or continuous key variable is possible and the result is a count of the number of matching patient across the different cohorts. The basis of the tool is the Knowledge Object. These knowledge object are ontology to which the different data source (in this case cohort data) can be mapped. The use of semantic technology offer the required flexibility a the ontology develops or a additional data source are added. The tool can accommodate different project (e.g. a single data source can be participating in one or more projects) or additional characteristic can be added for a given project. The same framework will also be used to develop additional tools, ultimately enabling an integrated data pipeline for cohort data. Virtual Selection Tool (VST) VST provides the researcher with an overview of available variable (counts, not values), followed by data access request to the selected cohort owners. TranSMART TranSMART is a knowledge management application built from open source component to investigate correlation between genetic and phenotypic (clinical) data to aid in predictive biomarker discovery. It consists of a web-based graphical data mining application that connects to a server based data warehouse. TranSMART wa made open source in 2012. The tranSMART Foundation wa established in 2013 to provide governance and coordination for new developments. Important contribution have come from IMI eTRIKS, CTMM TraIT, Pfizer, Sanofi and Janssen, amongst others. TranSMART can combine clinical and high dimensional data, such a gene expression, single nucleotide polymor-phisms (SNPs), Rules-based medicine (RBM), genome-wide association study (GWAS), copy number variation (CNV), etc. In EMIF, the main emphasis ha been on harmonized clinical data. High dimensional data is expected from e.g. the EMIF-AD 1000 sample cohort. TranSMART allows easy generation of query by phenotypes, genotypes, or a combination. Study group can be formed ad hoc to generate summary statistic or for hypothesis testing. Several advanced analysis pipeline are built in, such a boxplots with ANOVA, scatter-plots with linear regression, Kaplan-Meier plot with survival analysis, etc. GenePattern functionality is available for gene expression or proteomic analysis. Subjects from individual cohort can be pooled in a virtual cross trial cohort for a unified data analysis. Multi-omics Research Environment (MORE) Cloud computing provides user with a number of benefits: reduction of computational costs, universal access, up to date software, choice of applications, flexibility. There are many cloud platform that Research project can choose from: Amazon Web Services, OpenStack, VMWare, Google Cloud, etc. MORE is a transferrable solution between different cloud platform and ha specialised component for clinical and omics data analysis. In addition, MORE implies a flexible architecture that allows adding new tool and pipeline upon request. The following pipeline and tool are currently available in MORE (version 2): tranSMART for clinical data analysis; R Cloud for R parallel computing and R specific analysis; iRAP pipeline adapted for the Docker cluster to analyse transcriptomics sequencing data; NGSeasy pipeline adapted for the Docker cluster to analyse genomics sequencing data; MZmine2 adapted for the Docker cluster to analyse proteomics and metabolomics LC-MS data; Sequence Imp pipeline adapted for the Docker cluster to analyse microRNA sequencing data. The tranSMART, Docker cluster and R Cloud are connected and use a shared file system. The Docker cluster and R Cloud benefit from the scalability of cluster computing usage multiple VMs, job queue and task scheduler. New resource are added when needed. MORE is an open-source project and the code is publicly available at: . The EMIF instance of MORE is available at EMBL-EBI Embassy Cloud and can be accessible upon a request by EMIF users. This instance is used for EMIF-AD biomarker discovery. Knowledge Object Framework Michel van Speybroeck, James Cunningham, et al. Janssen & UNIMAN The knowledge object framework consists of a number of component that support the harmonization effort of clinical data. A knowledge object is a semantic representation of a clinical variable and contains descriptive metadata, executable rule that specify the relation (mapping) to other knowledge objects, and the actual data. A local knowledge object is the representation of a source variable and contains the raw data. A global knowledge object defines a harmonized, cross trial variable and serf a a mapping target for local knowledge objects. Several level of derived knowledge object are possible, thus creating a dependency graph. The main goal of knowledge object is to make the data harmonization process more efficient by specifying the minimal information to understand a clinical measurement and it mapping to a harmonized variable. That information is owned and maintained by the local data source or the research community. By specifying metadata and mapping rule using semantic web technology a reasoner can be used to perform the actual data extraction and harmonization. Security restriction are also defined on local variable and automatically propagated to global knowledge objects. The knowledge object framework consists of the following technical components: A central knowledge object library that contains the definition of core classes, property and the global knowledge objects. A local ontology at each data source, developed using tool such a Protg (for definition of local concepts) and Pentaho (for specifying mapping rule and connection to local data sources). Executing the mapping rule result in a local dataset, harmonized to the global standard and stored in a Stardog triple store. The Stardog sparql API make the data available to federated query from outflow tool such a the Participant selection Tool or the Variable Selection Tool. OMOP CDM/OHDSI Tools OHDSI tool (e.g. ACHILLES) provides researcher with an overview of patient profile in a given cohort, with filtering for a limited set of pre-agreed characteristics. Mapped 10 European Databases to the OMOP-CDM Contributes to the extension of the CDM and Standardized Vocabularies to accommodate the European data Supports the European OHDSI initiative to stimulate adoption of the CDM and collaboration across Europe Atlas ATLAS tool developed by OHDSI is used to conduct scientific analysis on standardized health data EMIF is evaluating the OHDSI tool in the EMIF community and is actively contributing to their further development Workflow Management Workflow management ensures integrity of process between researcher and data sources; management of task and process steps. Workflow Managment Workflow management ensures integrity of process between researcher and data sources; management of task and process steps. Switchbox Switchbox provides a single interface for cohort owners, but multiple harmonised output for tools. Corhort Selection Tool (CST) CST provides the researcher with an overview of the potential cohort data, availability, and suitability. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 09-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF-AD EMIF-AD Project Background With multiple clinical trial in dementia failing over the past years, attention ha recently shifted to subject with Alzheimers disease (AD) who have not reached the stage of dementia yet (i.e., pre-dementia). Since these subject have limited brain damage and are suggested to be more likely responsive to treatment than subject with full-blown dementia, they are an important target group for future treatment studies. EMIF-AD Project Objectives Trial design in pre-dementia AD, however, is challenging because subject with pre-dementia AD are difficult to identify and limited information is available on their outcome. The lack of reliable diagnostic and prognostic marker for pre-dementia AD can be explained by the availability of only small-scale ongoing biomarker study and longitudinal cohort including these subjects. EMIF ha linked this information and unlocked the true potential of these studies. By connecting relevant cohort study across Europe, EMIF-AD ha set up a pan-European platform for large-scale research on biomarkers and risk factor for neurodegenerative disorders. The biomarker discovery activity in EMIF-AD were driven by an extreme phenotype approach, in which decline or biomarker status wa used a the end point for biomarker discovery, rather than a clinical diagnosis. Doing so, EMIF-AD ha developed new treatment targets, multimodality/omics diagnostic tool and qualification level biomarker datasets suitable for presentation to regulatory authority prior to approval for use in clinical trial and practice. Finally, prediction rule for cognitive decline in presymptomatic and prodromal AD were developed which will not only improve clinical diagnosis and prognosis, but equally support subject selection and stratification in future clinical trials. These achievement have been possible because EMIF-AD combined both large-scale patient cohorts, linkage with EHR data, and cutting edge biomarker discovery expertise. Work Packages Overview Identify predictor of Alzheimers Disease (AD) in the pre-clinical and prodromal phase Work Packages (WP) for EMIF-AD Validate new biomarkers andselect subject for prevention trial WP4 Biomarker discovery withextreme phenotype a endpoint WP3 Characterise study populationand define extreme phenotype WP2 Define study population and data collection WP1 EMIF-AD Project Achievements EMIF AD Catalogue Tools developed to support data suitability via cohort selection and patient profile selection for research query The user-friendly EMIF Catalogue is now publicly available to search for AD cohort of interest Availability of European AD cohort information in one place will facilitate future research collaboration Several initiatives, such a IMI-EPAD, DPUK, IMI-PRISM, JPND-EADB and INTERDEM have already taken up the EMIF Catalogue The EMIF-AD Multimodal Biomarker Discovery study Project lead: Pieter Jelle Visser, VUmc Amsterdam & Maastricht University Simon Lovestone, Oxford University & Janssen Pharmaceutica Johannes Streffer, UCB & University of Antwerpen Coordinator and data management: Isabelle Bos, VUmc Amsterdam & Maastricht University, isabelle.bos@maastrichtuniversity.nl Aim & design: The main aim of the EMIF-AD Multimodal Biomarker Discovery (EMIF-AD MBD) study wa to accelerate the discovery of novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for AD and to unravel the underlying pathophysiological mechanism using existing data and samples. We harmonized and pooled clinical data from 11 cohort study across Europe and sample (cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, DNA) and MRI scan were centrally analyzed using different omics technique (proteomics, metabolomics, genomics). In total, material from 1221 participant wa included (n=492 control, n=527 MCI, n=202 AD dementia). Figure 1 provides a schematic overview of the EMIF-AD MBD study. The data generated in the context of the EMIF-AD MBD study is available upon request after approval of the research question by all parent cohort and the EMIF-AD team. Data request can be submitted via the EMIF-AD Catalogue (). Scientific output Bos, I., Vos, S.J., Vandenberghe, R., Scheltens, P, Engelborghs, S., Frisoni, G., Visser, PJ (2018). The EMIF-AD Multimodal Biomarker Discovery Study: Design, method and cohort characteristics. Alzheimer Research & Therapy. Kate ten, M., Redolfi, A., Bos, I., Vos, S.J.B., Vandenberghe, R., Gabel, S., Barkhof, F. (2018) MRI predictor of amyloid pathology: result from the EMIF-AD Multimodal Biomarker Discovery study. Alzheimer Research & Therapy. Morgan, A. R., Touchard, S., Leckey, C., OHagan, C., Nevado-Holgado, A. J., Barkhof, F., & Engelborghs, S. (2019). Inflammatory biomarkers in Alzheimers disease plasma. Alzheimers & dementia. Kim, M., Snowden, S., Suvitaival, T., Ali, A., Merkler, D. J., Ahmad, T., & Hye, A. (2019). Primary fatty amide in plasma associated with brain amyloid burden, hippocampal volume, and memory in the European Medical Information Framework for Alzheimers Disease biomarker discovery cohort. Alzheimers & dementia, 15(6), 817-827. Bos, I., Vos, S., Verhey, F., Scheltens, P., Teunissen, C., Engelborghs, S., & Bordet, R. (2019). Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers of neurodegeneration, synaptic integrity, and astroglial activation across the clinical Alzheimers disease spectrum. Alzheimers & dementia, 15(5), 644-654. The EMIF-AD 90+ study Project lead: Pieter Jelle Visser, VUmc Amsterdam & Maastricht University Stephan Carter, University of Manchester Coordinator and data management: Nienke Legdeur & Rene Haan, VUmc Amsterdam, r.haan2@amsterdamumc.nl Aim & design: The EMIF-AD 90+ study aimed to identify factor associated with resilience to cognitive impairment in the oldest-old. The study wa conducted at the Amsterdam University Medical Center and at the University of Manchester. At baseline, neuropsychological and clinical data (vascular comorbidities, mood, sleep, physical performance, genetic factors) were collected from 129 participant (n=84 with normal cognition and n=38 with cognitive deficits). Regarding imaging measures: baseline MRI (n=92), Amyloid-PET (n=103) and MEG (n=92) have been collected. And in addition skin biopsy (n=99) and ultrasound of the carotid artery (n=102) Currently (Oct 2019), the first annual follow-up measurement have completed in n=129 a of November 2019, with plan for a second annual follow-up 2020. Data request can be submitted via the EMIF-AD Catalogue (). Scientific output Legdeur N., Tijms B.M., Konijnenberg E., den Braber A., ten Kate M., Sudre C.H.,& Visser P.J., Associations of Brain Pathology Cognitive and Physical Markers With Age in Cognitively Normal Individuals Aged 60102 Years, The Journals of Gerontology: Series A. Legdeur N., Badissi M., Carter S.F., de Crom S., van de Kreeke A., Vreeswijk R., & Visser P.J. Resilience to cognitive impairment in the oldest-old: design of the EMIF-AD 90+ study. BMC Geriatr. The EMIF PreclinAD study Project lead: Pieter Jelle Visser, VUmc Amsterdam & Maastricht University Stephan Carter, University of Manchester Coordinator and data management: Jori Tomassen, VUmc Amsterdam, j.tomassen@amsterdamumc.nl Aim & design: The main aim of the EMIF-AD PreclinAD study wa to indentify new risk factor and diagnostic marker for both amyloid pathology and cognitive decline in cognitively normal subject with or without amyloid pathology. To investigate this monozygotic twin pair were included such that genetic and environmental pathway can be identified. For the baseline measurement n=204 cognitively healthy elderly monozygotic twin aged 60 year and older were included from the Manchester and Newcastle Age and Cognitive Performance Research Cohort and the Netherlands Twin Register. At baseline the following measurement were done: neuropsychological examination (n=204), blood sampling (n=204), CSF collection (n=127), ultrasound of the carotid artery (n=102), magnetoencephalography (n=190) and collection of ophthalmological marker (n=198). In n=192 (94%) the following follow-up measure were done after two years: containing a neuropsychological examination (n=191), a blood collection (n=192) and a CSF sampling (n=103). A second follow-up will be conducted in 2020. Data request can be submitted via the EMIF-AD Catalogue (). Scientific output Konijnenberg E., Carter S.F., Ten Kate M., den Braber A., Tomassen J., Amadi C., & Visser P.J. The EMIF-AD PreclinAD study: study design and baseline cohort overview. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Aug 4;10(1):75. doi: 10.1186/s13195-018-0406-7. Konijnenberg E., den Braber A., ten Kate M., Tomassen J., Mulder S.D., Yaqub M., , & Visser P.J. Association of amyloid pathology with memory performance and cognitive complaint in cognitively normal older adults: a monozygotic twin study. Neurobiology of Aging. 2019 May; 77: 58-65. WP 1 Definition of study population data requirement and data collection Pieter Jelle Visser (UM) Michael Arrighi (Janssen) UM (CO-LEAD), JANSSEN (CO-LEAD), UNIMAN, VUMC, IRCCFS-FBF, MAAT, CAMCOG, BI, PFIZER, ROCHE GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: The overall aim of this WP is to collect data required for the development and validation of new biomarkers for predementia AD into an overarching EMIF. The data collected will be used for further analysis in WP 2 to WP 4. The sub-objectives are: To select cohort that can be used for biomarker discovery and validation To pool data from the cohort study in a Private Remote Research Environment To link data from research cohort to EHR To collect additional data of key AD biomarkers and cognitive marker in subject from ongoing longitudinal cohort study WP 1 Definition of study population data requirement and data collection Pieter Jelle Visser (UM) Michael Arrighi (Janssen) UM (CO-LEAD), JANSSEN (CO-LEAD), UNIMAN, VUMC, IRCCFS-FBF, MAAT, CAMCOG, BI, PFIZER, ROCHE GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: The overall aim of this WP is to collect data required for the development and validation of new biomarkers for predementia AD into an overarching EMIF. The data collected will be used for further analysis in WP 2 to WP 4. The sub-objectives are: To select cohort that can be used for biomarker discovery and validation To pool data from the cohort study in a Private Remote Research Environment To link data from research cohort to EHR To collect additional data of key AD biomarkers and cognitive marker in subject from ongoing longitudinal cohort study WP 2 Characterisation of the study population and definition of extreme phenotype M. Gordon (BI), G. Novak (Janssen), S Engelborghs (UA), B. Dubois (UPMC) BI, Janssen, UA, UPMC, VTT, VUmc, Maastricht, UM, GSK, Pfizer, Roche, CamCog, Newcastle, KCL, Oxford GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective are: To characterize the study population and To define extreme phenotype based on subject selected in WP 1 The sub-objectives are: To provide summary statistic of the cohort selected in WP 1 To operationalize criterion for pre-symptomatic AD and prodromal AD To define extreme phenotype based on rate of decline To develop a multivariate prediction model for cognitive decline To define extreme phenotype based on AD biomarkers To define extreme phenotype based on resilience to dementia at old age WP 3 Biomarker Discovery Simon Lovestone (UOXF) Johannes Streffer (Janssen) UOXF (CO-LEAD), Janssen (CO-LEAD), KCL, VUmc, UGOT, KI, VTT, IRCCS-FBF, PSPLC, VIB, MAAT, UZL, GSK, PFIZER, BI, ROCHE GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: The objective of this WP is to discover new biomarkers and genetic marker for the diagnosis and prognosis of predementia AD using the extreme phenotype defined in WP 2. The sub-objectives are: To perform proteomics in CSF and plasma To perform GWAS analyses, exome sequencing, assessment of epigenomic profiles, and transcriptome profiling To perform metabolomics in CSF and plasma To perform voxel based MRI analysis To develop multivariate and class prediction algorithm To generate assay for new biomarkers WP 4 Validation of new biomarkers and identification and selection of individual for pharmacological intervention Hilkka Soininen (UEF) Piotr Lewczuk (UKER) Henrik Zetterberg (UGOT) TBD (Janssen) UEF (CO-LEAD), Janssen (CO-LEAD), VUmc, UGOT, IRCCS-FBF, UKER, MAAT, UZL, GSK, BI GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: The main objective of this WP is to cross-validate biomarkers discovered in WP 3 in independent sample and to develop recruitment strategy for AD prevention trials. The sub-objectives are: To cross-validate the new plasma, CSF, genetic and MRI marker from WP 3 in an independent cohort To investigate the relation between genetic risk factor and amyloid pathology on neuropathological examination To investigate the relation between new AD plasma marker and long-term cognitive decline in the general population To develop stepwise screening algorithm for recruitment of subject with presymptomatic AD or prodromal AD To analyse data from ongoing prodromal AD trial To select site for selection and inclusion for subject in predementia AD trial All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 17-12-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF-METABOLIC EMIF-Metabolic Project background Accumulating evidence indicates that obesity is closely associated with an increased risk of metabolic complication such a type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cancers. However, the association between obesity and any of these complication is complex, with high inter-individual variability in susceptibility to specific metabolic complication of obesity. This association is expected to be additionally influenced by different constitutional, environmental and obesity-specific factors, thus further complicating the development of adequate treatments. EMIF-Metabolic Project Objectives EMIF-Metabolic will focus on two distinct pathway through which individual who are obese may vary in their risk of the complication of obesity. One is to identify genetic cause of obesity and their relation to the metabolic complication of obesity. The other pathway is to characterize individual and identify marker associated with metabolic risk irrespective of degree of obesity based on the knowledge that many obese individual do not become dysmetabolic and insulin resistant. In both instance the complementary approach of studying extreme phenotype and population-based cohort will be followed. The discovery of predictor of the metabolic complication of adult and paediatric obesity ha lead to innovative diagnostic tests, paved the way to novel therapeutic targeted to high-risk individuals, and provided the infrastructure to select individual for such targeted pharmacological intervention (genetic, epigenetic and omics platforms). Identified novel mechanism and potential target for therapy were characterized in appropriate cell- and animal-based model to facilitate transition to human studies. To this end, EMIF-Metabolic ha brought together top European expert in genetics, epidemiology, genomics and other omic technologies, human and murine physiology and system approach and state-of-the-art technologies. Work Packages Overview EMIF-MET Identify predictor of metabolic complication in obesity EMIF-MET Work Packages (WP) Evaluate epidemiology of obesity-related clinical condition in large real-world database WP8 Validate sensitivity/specificity of novel biomarkers vs. currently available biomarkers WP7 Characterise heterogeneity in metabolic consequence of obesity in small, medium and large clinical population with outcome data WP6 Identify novel biomarkers and mechanism for obesity-associated complication using extreme phenotype and unbiased omics technologies, a well a targeted approach WP5 EMIF-Metabolic Project Achievements Cohort Development Molecules related to insulin secretion capacity, insulin resistance and NAFLD identified in -omics biomarker discovery programme, currently undergoing validation in a sample set of 6000 individual Discovery Potential new therapeutic target for NAFLD/NASH under investigation in Platform database and largest BMI cohort identified in primary care patient WP 5 Use carefully characterized extreme phenotype to identify biomarkers of metabolic risk Peter Arner (KI) Markku Laakso (UEF) Dawn Waterworth (GSK) KI (CO-LEAD), UEF (CO-LEAD), GSK (CO-LEAD), UGOT, UCAM, UH, INSERM, ULEI, UGLA, VKJK, Janssen, PFIZER, NOVO, Amgen, BI GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: To characterize in detail using omics technology extreme phenotype related to the complication of obesity (including insulin resistance and liver fat in first degree relative of diabetics). Response to weight loss will also be characterized. The most interesting biomarkers will subsequently be further evaluated in tissue culture and animal model and taken forward for further validation in medium sized cohort in WP6. The most interesting marker will be those most correlated with the endpoint of interest and with property that would lend themselves to being clinically useful; such a robustness, variability, frequency, tissue specificity and ease of detection. The sub-objectives are: Detailed omics analysis in well characterized sample with extreme phenotype or dietary intervention Comprehensive integrated analysis of detailed omics data using data reduction/mining/statistical technique to inform marker selection. Experimental assessment of selected biomarkers in cell-based and animal model to ass validity a drug target and diagnostic tools. WP 6 The investigation of heterogeneity in the metabolic consequence of obesity in medium-sized well phenotyped cohort study Nick Wareham (UCAM) Dawn Waterworth (GSK) Julia Brosnan (PFIZER) UCAM (CO-LEAD), GSK (CO-LEAD), PFIZER (CO-LEAD), UGOT, UH, UEF, INIPI, VKJK, ULEI, Janssen, Amgen, BI GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: To use candidate and discovery approach to identify biomarkers which are associated with the metabolic consequence of obesity and to investigate their causal significance in medium-sized well phenotyped cohort and large-scale nested case-cohort studies. The sub-objectives are: To select quantitative metabolic cohort study to test biomarkers for the prediction of the metabolic consequence of obesity. To use candidate and discovery approach to identify potential biomarkers. To study the association and likelihood of causality of biomarkers for the prediction of the metabolic consequence of obesity. WP 7 Validate novel risk factor in general population in adult and child Naveed Sattar (UGLA) Katrina Loomis (PFIZER) UGLA (CO-LEAD),PFIZER (CO-LEAD), UGOT,UCPH, Janssen, GSK, ROCHE, Amgen, BI GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: The overall objective of this WP is to measure then test the ability of new metabolic biomarkers to predict obesity-related outcome using retrospective and prospective studies. The sub-objectives are: Identify cohort from EHR which have available baseline serum / plasma samples, acceptable phenotyping (i.e. conventional vascular risk factors, family history data and level of BMI or waist circumference) and with access to outcome for vascular disease (i.e. CHD events), incident diabetes, and other obesity-related comorbidities such a fatty liver disease or sleep apnoea. To measure new biomarkers in established biobanks with available serum or plasma from cohort with at least conventional vascular risk factor measured at baseline (plus BMI) and with documented outcome covering at least CHD event but potentially also including incident cancers, diabetes and fatty liver disease. Compare the ability of biomarkers to predict obesity-related outcome in comparison to conventionally measured risk factor and simple demographic information. Test the predictive capacity of the most promising biomarkers by utilising sample taken from trial held by Industry participant or from EHR/biobank studies. Very limited access to sample for biomarker analysis Confirming new metabolic biomarkers identified in WP5 and WP6 will require EMIF to bring in additional biobanks or cohort resource with available biospecimens. WP 8 Identify and select individual for pharmacological or non-pharmacological intervention Ele Ferrannini (UNIPI) Stuart Kendrick (GSK) Janet Addison (Amgen) UNIPI (CO-LEAD), GSK (CO-LEAD), Amgen (CO-LEAD), UCPH, Janssen, PFIZER, BI GOALS & OBJECTIVES The main objective is: The pharmaceutical intervention work package is designed to deliver real world observational data and data from randomised controlled studies, validating the extreme phenotype approach for classification of obesity, disease related to obesity, and biomarkers identified by other work packages. It is also designed to test the feasibility of electronic healthcare record driven recruitment to intervention trials. The sub-objectives are: Establish whether or not EHRs can be used to conduct feasibility for our clinical trials? Establish whether or not EHRs can be used to contact the patient for recruitment into our clinical trial Better understanding relationship (adverse effect & therapeutic effect) between extreme phenotype and response to prescribed drug Validate biomarkers to predict therapeutic response in interventional trial Utilize clinical trial data generated by EFPIA partner to investigate the liver complication of obesity. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 10-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation CONSORTIUM The project consortium is a partnership of 58teams from academia, small and medium sized company and member of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). The EMIF team gather a large number of world-renowned expert in data access and linkage and the Metabolic and AD therapeutic area from 14 country across Europe. OrganisationPartner TypeCountry AcademiaDenmark AcademiaItaly Patient OrganisationLuxembourg EFPIAUK EFPIAGermany SMEUK SMEGermany SMEBelgium SMEUK AcademiaThe Netherlands AcademiaBelgium AcademiaGermany EFPIASwitzerland AcademiaItaly AcademiaItaly EFPIAUK AcademiaSweden AcademiaFinland AcademiaSpain AcademiaFrance AcademiaFinland EFPIABelgium AcademiaSweden AcademiaUK AcademiaGermany AcademiaThe Netherlands SMEFrance EFPIAGermany EFPIADenmark SMEItaly EFPIAUK SMEThe Netherlands AcademiaItaly EFPIAFrance SMESpain AcademiaEstonia AcademiaFinland EFPIABelgium AcademiaPortugal AcademiaSpain AcademiaBelgium AcademiaUK AcademiaDenmark AcademiaUK AcademiaUK AcademiaUK AcademiaUK AcademiaUK AcademiaFrance AcademiaItaly AcademiaGermany AcademiaGermany AcademiaGermany AcademiaGermany AcademiaBelgium AcademiaThe Netherlands All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 10-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation GOVERNANCE Project Management Boards The day-to-day management of the EMIF project is done via various management boards, each of which have their own specific responsibilities. Project & Topic Leaders The overall project coordination is ensured by: Bart Vannieuwenhuyse, Janssen Pharmaceutica a overall Project Coordinator Sir Simon Lovestone, University of Oxford a overall Project Co-Coordinator Each individual Topic is managed by a tandem of Topic Leaders: Johan Van der Lei, Erasmus Medical Center a academic EMIF-Platform leader Nigel Hughes, Janssen Pharmaceutica a EFPIA EMIF-Platform leader Pieter Jelle Visser, VU University Medical Center a academic EMIF-AD leader Johannes Streffer, Janssen Pharmaceutica a EFPIA EMIF-AD leader Ulf Smith, University of Gothenburg a academic EMIF-Metabolic leader Dawn Waterworth, GlaxoSmithKline a EFPIA EMIF-Metabolic Leader Other management board At the overall project level, the Operations Team,Programme Board and General Assembly are responsible for dealing with the day-to-day operations, cross-Topical collaboration and defining the strategic focus for EMIF. At the individual Topic level, Topic-specific governance have been defined to ensure efficient management of the Topics. Project management office Dedicated project management support for both the project a a whole and the individual Topics is provided through partner Janssen Pharmaceutica, Synapse Research Management Partners, Concentris GmbH and GlaxoSmithKline. Project Advisory Boards The EMIF project receives advice on it strategic focus and outcome via three independent advisory boards. Ethical Advisory Board (EAB) The EAB is providing advice for thesetting up of EMIFs appropriate governance structure and for addressing the ethical, legal, and privacy aspect pertaining to the re-use of human health data within the EMIF project. The EMIF EAB currently ha 6 members: Prof. Luciano Floridi, Professor of Philosophy and Ethics of Information, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford and Turing Faculty Fellow, The Alan Turing Institute, London (chair of the EMIF EAB) Prof. Effy Vayena, Professor of Health Policy, University of Zrich Prof. Burkhard Schfer, Professor of Computational Legal Theory, University of Edinburgh and Director of it SCRIPT Centre for IT and IP law Prof. ChristophLtge, holder of the Peter Lscher Chair of Business Ethics, Technical University of Munich Prof. Peggy Valcke, Professor ICT and medium law, KU Leuven Prof. Ugo Pagallo, Professor of Jurisprudence at the Faculty of Law, University of Turin Check a more detailed description of the EABs responsibility and member A PDF version of a summary overview of the EABs responsibility and short bios of it member Senior Industry Board (SIB) The SIBserves a the ultimate escalation point and upon request will provide strategic direction for EMIF. This board is composed of senior leader from participating EFPIA companies. Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) Three SABs have been set up to provide advice to each of the individual Topics regarding the scientific result and overall course. Each SAB is composed of expert nominated by the public and private partner involved in the specific Topics. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 07-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation PUBLICATIONS 2018 LINKTOPICTITLEREFERENCEAUTHOR(S)DATE ADAge dependency of risk factor for cognitive declineBMC Geriatrics 2018 18:187Legdeur N, Heymans MW, Comijs HC, Huisman M, Maier AB, Visser PJ2018-07-01 ADThe EMIF-AD PreclinAD study: Study Design and Baseline Cohort OverviewAlzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Aug 4;10(1):75Konijnenberg E, Carter SF, Ten Kate M, den Braber A, Tomassen J, Amadi C et al.2018-06-30 ADCapturing the Alzheimers disease pathological cascadeLancet Neurol. 2018 Mar;17(3):199-200Tijms BM, Visser PJ2018-06-30 ADAmyloid-, Tau, and Cognition in Cognitively Normal Older Individuals: Examining the Necessity to Adjust for Biomarker Status in Normative DataFront Aging Neurosci. 2018 Jun 25;10:193Bos I, Vos SJ, Jansen WJ, Vandenberghe R, Gabel S, Estanga A et al.2018-06-25 ADInter-laboratory Proficiency Processing scheme in CSF aliquoting: Implementation and assessment based on biomarkers of Alzheimers DiseaseAlzheimer's Research & Therapy201810:87Lewczuk P, Gaignaux A, Kofanova O, Ermann N, Betsou F, Brandner S et al.2018-08-28 ADThe EMIF-AD Multimodal Biomarker Discovery study: design, method and cohort characteristicsAlzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Jul 6;10(1):64Bos I, Vos SJ, Vandenberghe R, Scheltens P, Engelborghs S, Frisoni G et al.2018-07-06 ADMRI predictor of amyloid pathology: result from the EMIF-AD multimodal biomarker discovery studyAlzheimer's Research & Therapy201810:100Ten Kate M, Redolfi A, Peira E, Bos I, Vos SJ, Vandenberghe R et al.2018-06-01 ADCSF non-phosphorylated Tau a a biomarker for the discrimination of AD from CJDAnn Clin Transl Neurol. 2018 Jul; 5(7): 883887Ermann N, Lewczuk P, Schimetz M, Lange P, Knipper T, Goebel S et al.2018-05-26 ADDiagnostic value of cerebrospinal fluid tau, neurofilament, and progranulin in definite frontotemporal lobar degenerationAlzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Mar 20;10(1):31Goossens J, Bjerke M, Van Mossevelde S, Van den Bossche T, Goeman J, De Vil B et al.2018-03-20 ADWhite paper by the Society for CSF Analysis and Clinical Neurochemistry: Overcoming barrier in biomarker development and clinical translationAlzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Mar 15;10(1):30Teunissen CE, Otto M, Engelborghs S, Herukka SK, Lehmann S, Lewczuk P et al.2018-03-15 ADNeurogranin a Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarker for Alzheimer Disease: An Assay Comparison StudyClin Chem. 2018 Jun;64(6):927-937Willemse EAJ, De Vos A, Herries EM, Andreasson U, Engelborghs S, van der Flier WM2018-03-01 ADAdded Diagnostic Value of Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers for Differential Dementia Diagnosis in an Autopsy-Confirmed CohortJ Alzheimers Dis. 2018;63(1):373-381Niemantsverdriet E, Feyen BFE, Le Bastard N, Martin JJ, Goeman J, De Deyn PP, Bjerke M, Engelborghs S2018-02-02 ADLong Non-Coding RNAs Associated with Metabolic Traits in Human White Adipose Tissue.EBioMedicine. 2018 Apr;30:248-260Gao H, Kerr A, Jiao H, Hon CC, Rydn M, Dahlman I, Arner P2018-01-01 ADGray matter network disruption and amyloid beta in cognitively normal adultsFront Aging Neurosci. 2018 Mar 15;10:67Ten Kate M, Visser PJ, Bakardjian H, Barkhof F, Sikkes SAM, van der Flier WM et al.2018-01-01 ADPlasma neurofilament light a a potential biomarker of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's diseaseAlzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Jul 28;10(1):71Lewczuk P, Ermann N, Andreasson U, Schultheis C, Podhorna J, Spitzer P et al.2018-07-28 ADAmyloid oligomers (AOs) in Alzheimer's diseaseJ Neural Transm (Vienna). 2018 Feb;125(2):177-191Mroczko B, Groblewska M, Litman-Zawadzka A, Kornhuber J, Lewczuk P2018-02-01 ADA Specific Reduction in A1-42 vs. a Universal Loss of A Peptides in CSF Differentiates Alzheimer's Disease from Meningitis and Multiple Sclerosis.Front Aging Neurosci. 2018 May 24;10:152Spitzer P, Lang R, Oberstein TJ, Lewczuk P, Ermann N, Huttner HB, Masouris I, Kornhuber J, Kdel U, Maler JM2018-05-24 ADWhite matter hyperintensities and vascular risk factor in monozygotic twinsNeurobiol Aging. 2018 Jun;66:40-48Ten Kate M, Sudre CH, den Braber A, Konijnenberg E, Nivard MG, Cardoso MJ, Scheltens P, Ourselin S, Boomsma DI, Barkhof F, Visser PJ2018-06-01 ADAssociation of Cerebral Amyloid- Aggregation With Cognitive Functioning in Persons Without DementiaJAMA Psychiatry. 2018 Jan 1;75(1):84-95Jansen WJ, Ossenkoppele R, Tijms BM, Fagan AM, Hansson O, Klunk WE et al.2018-01-01 ADScreening of Potential Adipokines Identifies S100A4 a a Marker of Pernicious Adipose Tissue and Insulin ResistanceInt J Obes (Lond). 2018 Jan 30Arner P, Petrus P, Esteve D, Boulomi A, Nslund E, Thorell A et al.2018-01-30 ADCerebrospinal fluid and blood biomarkers for neurodegenerative dementias: An update of the Consensus of the Task Force on Biological Markers in Psychiatry of the World Federation of Societies of Biological PsychiatryWorld J Biol Psychiatry. 2018 Jun;19(4):244-328Lewczuk P, Riederer P, O'Bryant SE, Verbeek MM, Dubois B, Visser PJ et al.2018-06-01 ADDementia prevalence and incidence in a federation of European Electronic Health Record databases: The European Medical Informatics Framework resourceAlzheimers Dement. 2018 Feb;14(2):130-139Perera G, Pedersen L, Ansel D, Alexander M, Arrighi HM, Avillach P et al.2018-02-01 ADCellular Receptors of Amyloid Oligomers (AOs) in Alzheimer's DiseaseInt J Mol Sci. 2018 Jun 27;19(7)Mroczko B, Groblewska M, Litman-Zawadzka A, Kornhuber J, Lewczuk P2018-06-27 ADAmyloid production and aggregation in preclinical Alzheimers disease - a monozygotic twin studyAlzheimers Res Ther. 2018 Aug 4;10(1):75Konijnenberg E, Carter SF, Ten Kate M, den Braber A, Tomassen J, Amadi C et al.2018-08-04 MetabolicGamma-glutamyltranspeptidase fraction in obese subject with type 2 diabetes: relation to insulin sensitivity and effect of bariatric surgeryObes Surg. 2018 May;28(5):1363-1371Franzini M, Musetti V, Guarino D, Caponi L, Paolicchi A, Emdin M, Ferrannini E, Nannipieri M.2018-05-28 MetabolicElevated Plasma Levels of 3-Hydroxyisobutyric Acid Are Associated With Incident Type 2 Diabetes.EBioMedicine. 2018 Jan;27:151-155Mardinoglu A, Gogg S, Lotta LA, Stankov A, Nerstedt A, Boren J et al.2018-01-01 MetabolicSystems biology in hepatology: approach and applications.Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018 Jun;15(6):365-377Mardinoglu A, Boren J, Smith U, Uhlen M, Nielsen J et al.2018-01-01 PlatformKey Ethical Challenges in the European Medical Information FrameworkMinds and Machines doi.org/10.1007/s11023-018-9467-4Foridi L, Luetge C, Pagallo U, Schefr B, Valcke P, Vayena E et al.2018-07-09 PlatformMONTRA: An agile architecture for data publishing and discoveryComput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Jul;160:33-42Silva LB, Trifan A, Oliveria JL2018-07-01 PlatformA methodology for fine-grained access control in exposing biomedical dataStud Health Technol Inform. 2018;247:561-565Trifan A, van der Lei J, Daz C, Oliveira JL2018-09-01 PlatformReal world data reveal a diagnostic gap in non-alcoholic fatty liver diseaseBMC Med. 2018; 16: 130Alexander M, Loomis K, Fairburn-Beech J, Van der Lei J, Duarte-Salles T, Prieto-Alhambra D et al.2018-02-28 PlatformA modular workflow management frameworkIn Proceedings of the 11th International Joint Conference on Biomedical Engineering Systems and Technologies - Volume 5: HEALTHINF, 414-421, 2018Almeida JR, Ribeiro R, Oliveira JL2018-01-19 PlatformA methodology to perform semi-automatic distributed EHR database queriesProceedings of the 11th International Joint Conference on Biomedical Engineering Systems and Technologies - Volume 5: HEALTHINF, 127-134, 2018Fajarda O, Silva LB, Rijnbeek PR, Van Speybroeck M, Oliveria JL2018-01-19 PlatformA De-Identification Pipeline for Ultrasound Medical Images in DICOM Format.J Med Syst. 2017 May;41(5):89. doi: 10.1007/s10916-017-0736-1Monteiro E, Costa C, Oliveria JL2018-05-01 PlatformcomoRbidity: An R package for the systematic analysis of disease comorbidities.Bioinformatics 2018 Sep 15; 18:32283230Gutirrez-Sacristn A, Bravo A, Giannoula A, Myaer MA, Sanz F, Furlong LI2018-04-20 PlatformIdentifying temporal pattern in patient disease trajectory using dynamic time warping: A population-based studySci Rep, 2018; 8(1): 4216Giannoula A, Gutierrez Sacristn A, Bravo A, Sanz F, Furlong LI2018-03-09 2017 LINKTOPICTITLEREFERENCEAUTHOR(S)DATE MetabolicHypoinsulinaemic, hypoketotic hypoglycaemia due to mosaic genetic activation of PI3-kinaseEur J Endocrinol. 2017 Aug; 177(2): 175186Leiter SM, Parker VER, Welters A, Knox R, Rocha N, Clark G et al.2017-08-01 MetabolicMuscle and adipose tissue morphology, insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function in diabetic and nondiabetic obese patients: effect of bariatric surgerySci Rep. 2017 Aug 21;7(1):9007Camastra S, Vitali A, Anselmino M, Gastaldelli A, Bellini R, Berta R et al.2017-08-21 MetabolicPlasma mannose level are associated with incident type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseaseCell Metab. 2017 Aug 1;26(2):281-283Mardinoglu A, Stankov A, Lotta LA, Kuusisto J, Boren J, Blher M et al.2017-07-09 MetabolicImproving economics of NASH/NAFLD treatment through the use of system biologyDrug Discov Today. 2017 Oct;22(10):1532-1538Bosley J, Boren C, Lee S, Grtli M, Nielsen J, Boren J et al.2017-07-09 MetabolicConstitutive activation of AKT2 in human lead to hypoglycemia without fatty liver or metabolic dyslipidemiaJ Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2017 Aug 1;102(8):2914-2921Minic M, Rocha N, Harris J, Groeneveld MP, Leiter S, Wareham N et al.2017-05-23 MetabolicInsulin resistance and normal thyroid hormone levels: prospective study and metabolomic analysisAm J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2017 May 1;312(5):E429-E436Ferrannini E, Iervasi G, Cobb J, Ndreu R, Nannipieri M2017-05-15 MetabolicLongitudinal analysis of the steroid metabolome in obese PCOS girl with weight loss.Endocr Connect. 2017 May;6(4):213-224Reinehr T, Kulle A, Rothermel J, Knop-Schmenn C, Lass N, Bosse C, Holterhus PM2017-04-03 ADThe frequency and influence of dementia risk factor in prodromal Alzheimer's diseaseNeurobiol Aging. 2017 Aug;56:33-40Bos I, Vos SJ, Frlich L, Kornhuber J, Wiltfang J, Maier W et al.2017-08-01 ADDoes genetic risk help to predict amyloid burden in a non-demented population? A Bayesian approachbioRxiv doi.org/10.1101/174995Voyle N, Jansen W, Keohane A, Patel H, Folarin A, Newhouse S et al.2017-08-01 ADStrategic roadmap for an early diagnosis of Alzheimers disease based on biomarkersLancet Neurol. 2017 Aug;16(8):661-676Frisoni GB, Boccardi M, Barkhof F, Blennow K, Cappa S, Chiotis K et al.2017-08-01 ADAmyloid-independent atrophy pattern predict time to progression to dementia in MCIAlzheimers Res Ther. 2017 Sep 12;9(1):73Ten Kate M, Barkhof F, Visser PJ, Teunissen CE, Scheltens P, van der Flier WM, Tijms BM2017-09-12 ADCerebrovascular and amyloid pathology in predementia stages: the relationship with neurodegeneration and cognitive declineAlzheimers Res Ther. 2017 Dec 29;9(1):101Bos I, Verhey FR, Ramakers IHGB, Jacobs HIL, Soininen H, Freund-Levi Y et al.2017-12-29 ADClinical validity of medial temporal atrophy a a biomarker for Alzheimers disease in the context of a structured 5-phase development frameworkNeurobiol Aging. 2017 Apr;52:167-182.e1Ten Kate M, Barkhof F, Boccardi M, Visser PJ, Jack CR Jr, Lovblad KO et al.2017-04-01 ADCognitive functioning of individual aged 90 year and older withoutdementia: A systematic reviewAgeing Res Rev. 2017 Jul;36:42-49Legdeur N, Binnekade TT, Otten RH, Badissi M, Scheltens P, Visser PJ, Maier AB2017-03-08 ADBrain Amyloid Pathology and Cognitive Function - Alzheimer Disease Without Dementia?JAMA. 2017;317(22):2285-2287Visser PJ, Tijms B2017-03-01 ADAssociation of blood lipid with Alzheimers Disease: a comprehensive lipidomics analysisAlzheimers Dement. 2017 Feb;13(2):140-151Proitsi P, Kim M, Whiley L, Simmons A, Sattlecker M, Velayudhan L et al.2017-02-13 PlatformReal world big data for clinical research and drug developmentDrug Discov Today. 2018 Mar;23(3):652-660Singh G, Schulthess D, Hughes N, Vannieuwenhuyse B, Kalra D2017-12-30 PlatformLa Reutilizacin de la Informacin de la Historia Clnica Electrnica para la Investigacin. De la Medicina Traslacional a la Medicina de Precisin: el nuevo paradigma "Learning Health System","I+S: Revista de la Sociedad Espaola de Informtica y Salud2017124:14-19"Mayer MA.2017-09-01 PlatformGeneral guideline for biomedical software developmentF1000Research 2017, 6:273Silva LB, Jimenez RC, Blomberg N, Luis Oliveira J.2017-07-12 PlatformData Integration and Sharing Supporting Drug R&DComprehensive Medicinal Chemistry III vol. 1, pp. 436443Sanz F2017-06-13 PlatformThe launch of the European Institute for innovation through health data.Journal of Medicines Development Sciences, 3(1): 165.Kalra D, Sundgren M, Claerhout B, et al2017-04-01 PlatformUsing Electronic Health Records to Assess Depression and Cancer ComorbiditiesStud Health Technol Inform. 2017;235:236-240Mayer MA, Gutierrez-Sacristan A, Leis A, De La Pea S, Sanz F, Furlong LI2017-05-01 PlatformNine Princples of Semantic HarmonizationAMIA Annu Symp Proc. 2016; 2016: 451459Cunningham JA, Van Speybroeck M, Kalra D, Verbeeck R2017-02-10 MetabolicCephalic phase of insulin secretion in response to a meal is unrelated to family history of Type 2 diabetesPLoS One. 2017 Mar 13;12(3):e0173654Eliasson B, Rawshani A, Axelsen M, Hammarstedt A, Smith U.2017-03-13 MetabolicObesity/insulin resistance rather than liver fat increase coagulation factor activity and expression in humansThromb Haemost. 2017 Jan 26;117(2):286-294Lallukka S, Luukkonen PK, Zhou Y, Isokuortti E, Leivonen M, Juuti A et al.2017-01-26 ADMitochondrial gene are altered in blood early in Alzheimer's diseaseNeurobiol Aging. 2017 May;53:36-47Lunnon K, Keohane A, Pidsley R, Newhouse S, Riddoch-Contreras J, Thubron EB et al.2017-08-01 ADThe frequency and influence of dementia risk factor in prodromal Alzheimer's disease.Neurobiol Aging. 2017 Aug;56:33-40Bos I, Vos SJ, Frlich L, Kornhuber J, Wiltfang J, Maier W et al.2017-08-01 MetabolicGenome-wide DNA promoter methylation and transcriptome analysis in human adipose tissue unravels novel candidate gene for obesityMol Metab. 2017 Jan; 6(1): 86100Keller M, Hopp L, Liu X, Wohland T, Rohde K, Cancello R et al.2017-01-01 ADFunctional and effective whole brain connectivity using magnetoencephalography to identify monozygotic twin pairsSci Rep. 2017 Aug 29;7(1):9685Demuru M, Gouw AA, Hillebrand A, Stam CJ, van Dijk BW, Scheltens P et al.2017-01-01 2016 LINKTOPICTITLEREFERENCEAUTHOR(S)DATE MetabolicIntegrated Network Analysis Reveals an Association between Plasma Mannose Levels and Insulin ResistanceCell Metab. 2016 Jul 12;24(1):172-84Lee S, Zhang C, Kilicarslan M, Piening BD, Bjornson E, Hallstrm BM et al.2016-07-12 ADCerebrospinal Fluid A42/40 Corresponds Better than A42 to Amyloid PET in Alzheimer's DiseaseJ Alzheimers Dis. 2017;55(2):813-822Lewczuk P, Matzen A, Blennow K, Parnetti L, Molinuevo JL, Eusebi P, Kornhuber J, Morris JC, Fagan AM2016-11-01 ADComplement Biomarkers a predictor of disease progression in Alzheimers diseaseJ Alzheimers Dis. 2016 Sep 6;54(2):707-16Hakobyan S, Harding K, Aiyaz M, Hye A, Dobson R, Baird A, Liu B, Harris CL, Lovestone S, Morgan BP2016-09-06 PlatformIdentificare i casi di diabete tipo 2 in una rete di fonti di dati eterogenee la strategia del progetto EMIFNot Ist Super Sanit 2016;29(10)Roberto G, Gini R2016-10-01 MetabolicA systematic review of aetiological and predictive biomarkers of the risk of developing type 2 diabetesPLoS One. 2016 Oct 27;11(10):e0163721Abbasi A, Sahlqvist AS, Lotta L, Brosnan JM, Vollenweider P, Giabbanelli P et al.2016-10-27 MetabolicInsulin resistance uncoupled from dyslipidemia due to C-terminal PIK3R1 mutationsJCI Insight. 2016 Oct 20;1(17):e88766Huang-Doran I, Tomlinson P, Payne F, Gast A, Sleigh A, Bottomley W et al.2016-10-20 ADNon-Phosphorylated Tau a a Potential Biomarker of Alzheimers Disease: Analytical and Diagnostic CharacterizationJ Alzheimers Dis. 2017;55(1):159-170Lewczuk P, Lelental N, Lachmann I, Holzer M, Flach K, Brandner S et al.2016-11-01 PlatformBig Data Technologies in Healthcare Needs, opportunity and challengesBDVA Valencia Summit White paperTF7 Healthcare Subgroup. Big Data Value Association2016-11-29 MetabolicGenetic Predisposition to an Impaired Metabolism of the Branched-Chain Amino Acids and Risk of Type 2 Diabetes: A Mendelian Randomization AnalysisPLoS Med. 2016 Nov 29;13(11):e1002179Lotta LA, Scott RA, Sharp SJ, Burgess S, Luan J, Tillin et al.2016-11-29 ADGenetic risk and plasma tau a marker of amyloid-beta and tau burden in cerebrospinal fluidJ Alzheimers Dis. 2017; 55(4): 14171427Voyle, N, Patel H, Folarin A, Newhouse S, Johnston C, Visser PJ et al.2016-12-20 MetabolicNon-alcoholic fatty liver disease and risk of type 2 diabetesBest Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Jun;30(3):385-95Lallukka S, Yki-Jrvinen H2016-06-01 PlatformIdentifying Cases of Type 2 Diabetes in Heterogeneous Data Sources: Strategy from the EMIF ProjectPLoS ONE 11(8): e0160648.Roberto G, Leal I, Sattar N, Loomis AK, Avillach P, Egger P, et al.2016-08-31 MetabolicHepatic ceramides dissociate steatosis and insulin resistance in patient with non-alcoholic fatty liver diseaseJ Hepatol. 2016 May;64(5):1167-75Luukkonen PK, Zhou Y, Sdevirta S, Leivonen M, Arola J, Orei M, Hytylinen T, Yki-Jrvinen H2016-05-01 MetabolicPhosphorylated IGFBP-1 a a non-invasive predictor of liver fat in NAFLDSci Rep. 2016 Apr 19;6:24740Petj EM, Zhou Y, Havana M, Hakkarainen A, Lundbom N, Ihalainen J, Yki-Jrvinen H2016-04-19 PlatformData Safe Havens and Trust: Toward a Common Understanding of Trusted Research Platforms for Governing Secure and Ethical Health ResearchJMIR Med Inform. 2016 Jun 21;4(2):e22Lea NC, Nicholls J, Dobbs C, Sethi N, Cunningham J, Ainsworth J, Heaven M, Peacock T, Peacock A, Jones K, Laurie G, Kalra D2016-06-21 ADGenetic variation underlying Alzheimer's disease: evidence from genome-wide association study and beyondLancet Neurol. 2016 Jul;15(8):857-68Cuyvers E, Sleegers K2016-07-15 ADA Decade of Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease in BelgiumJ Alzheimers Dis. 2016 Aug 10;54(1):383-95.Somers C, Struyfs H, Goossens J, Niemantsverdriet E, Luyckx J, De Roeck N, De Roeck E, De Vil B, Cras P, Martin JJ, De Deyn PP, Bjerke M, Engelborghs S2016-08-10 ADValidation of microRNAs in Cerebrospinal Fluid a Biomarkers for Different Forms of Dementia in a Multicenter StudyJ Alzheimers Dis. 2016 Apr 16;52(4):1321-33.Mller M, Kuiperij HB, Versleijen AA, Chiasserini D, Farotti L, Baschieri F, Parnetti L, Struyfs H, De Roeck N, Luyckx J, Engelborghs S, Claassen JA, Verbeek MM2016-05-08 ADsTREM2 cerebrospinal fluid level are a potential biomarker for microglia activity in early-stage Alzheimer's disease and associate with neuronal injury markers.EMBO Mol Med. 2016 May 2;8(5):466-76Surez-Calvet M, Kleinberger G, Araque Caballero M, Brendel M, Rominger A, Alcolea D, Fortea J, Lle A, Blesa R, Gispert JD, Snchez-Valle R, Antonell A, Rami L, Molinuevo JL, Brosseron F, Traschtz A, Heneka MT, Struyfs H, Engelborghs S, Sleegers K, Van Broeckhoven C, Zetterberg H, Nellgrd B, Blennow K, Crispin A, Ewers M, Haass C2016-05-02 MetabolicRisk factor for spontaneously self-reported postprandial hypoglycemia after bariatric surgeryJ Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Oct;101(10):3600-3607Nannipieri M, Belligoli A, Guarino D, Busetto L, Moriconi D, Fabris R, Mari A, Baldi S, Anselmino M, Foletto M, Vettor R, Ferrannini E2016-06-23 MetabolicAdipose and circulating CCL18 level associate with metabolic risk factor in womenJ Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Jul 26:jc20162390Eriksson Hogling D, Petrus P, Gao H, Bckdahl J, Dahlman I, Laurencikiene J, Acosta J, Ehrlund A, Nslund E, Kulyte A, Mejhert N, Andersson DP, Arner P, Rydn M2016-07-26 MetabolicThe epigenetic signature of systemic insulin resistance in obese womenDiabetologia. 2016 Nov;59(11):2393-405Arner P, Sahlqvist AS, Sinha I, Xu H, Yao X, Waterworth D, Rajpal D, Loomis AK, Freudenberg JM, Johnson T, Thorell A, Nslund E, Ryden M, Dahlman I2016-08-18 ADGray matter network disruption and amyloid beta in cognitively normal adultsNeurobiol Aging. 2016 Jan;37:154-60Tijms BM, Kate MT, Wink AM, Visser PJ, Ecay M, Clerigue M, Estanga A, Garcia Sebastian M, Izagirre A, Villanua J, Martinez Lage P, van der Flier WM, Scheltens P, Sanz Arigita E, Barkhof F2016-01-01 ADDiagnostic Impact of Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarker (Pre-)Analytical Variability in Alzheimer's DiseaseJ Alzheimers Dis. 2016;51(1):97-106Niemantsverdriet E, Goossens J, Struyfs H, Martin JJ, Goeman J, De Deyn PP, Vanderstichele H, Engelborghs S2016-02-01 ADImpact of APOE-e4 and family history of dementia on gray matter atrophy in cognitively healthy middle-aged adultsNeurobiol Aging 2016 Feb;38:14-20Ten Kate M, Sanz-Arigita EJ, Tijms BM, Wink AM, Clerique M, Garcia-Sebastian M, Izagirre A, Ecay-Torres M, Estanga A, Villanua J, Vrenken H, Visser PJ, Martinez-Lage P, Barkhof F2016-02-01 PlatformSemantic Knowledge Base Construction from Radiology ReportsHealthinf, (Biostec 2016) ISBN 978-989-758-170-0, page 345-352Monteiro E, Sernadela P, Matos S, Costa C, Oliveira JL2016-02-20 ADComparison of Different Matrices a Potential Quality Control Samples for Neurochemical Dementia DiagnosticsJ Alzheimers Dis. 2016 Mar 1;52(1):51-64Lelental N, Brandner S, Kofanova O, Blennow K, Zetterberg H, Andreasson U et al.2016-03-01 2015 LINKTOPICTITLEREFERENCEAUTHOR(S)DATE PlatformPsyGeNET: a knowledge platform on psychiatric disorder and their genesBioinformatics. 2015 Sep 15;31(18):3075-7Gutirrez-Sacristn A, Grosdidier S, Valverde O, Torrens M, Bravo , Piero J, Sanz F, Furlong LI2015-09-15 ADAlzheimer's disease - Recent biomarker development in relation to updated diagnostic criteriaClin Chim Acta 2015 Sep 20;449:3-8Hglund K, Fourier A, Perret-Liaudet A, Zetterberg H, Blennow K, Portelius E2015-09-20 ADValidation of the Erlangen Score Algorithm for the prediction of the development of dementia due to AD in pre-dementia subjectsJ Alzheimers Dis.2015 Sep 9;48(2):433-41Lewczuk P,Kornhuber J,Toledo JB,Trojanowski JQ,Knapik-Czajka M,Peters O,Wiltfang J,Shaw LM2015-09-09 ADAge-stratified prevalence of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in European populations, a systematic reviewJ Alzheimers Dis.2015 Sep 9;48(2):355-9Alexander M,Perera G,Ford L,Arrighi HM,Foskett N,Debove C,Novak G,Gordon MF2015-09-09 ADA novel multi-tissue diagnostic of healthy ageing can determine cognitive health status using blood RNAGenome Biol. 2015; 16(1): 185Sood S,Gallagher IJ, Lunnon K,Rullman E,Keohane A,Crossland H,Phillips BE, Cederholm T,Jensen T,van Loon LJC,Lannfelt L,Kraus WE,Atherton PJ,Howard R, Gustafsson T,Hodges A,Timmons JA2015-09-07 ADBoosting translational research on Alzheimer's disease in Europe: The Innovative Medicine Initiative AD research platformAlzheimers Dement.2015 Sep;11(9):1121-2Vaudano E,Vannieuwenhuyse B,Van Der Geyten S,van der Lei J,Visser PJ,Streffer J,Ritchie C,McHale D,Lovestone S,Hofmann-Apitius M,Truyen L,Goldman M2015-09-01 ADNo evidence to suggest that the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor confounds the result of two blood-based biomarker study in Alzheimers diseaseJ Alzheimers Dis.2015 Aug 3;47(3):741-50Chiam JT,Lunnon K,Voyle N,Proitsi P,Coppola G,Geschwind D,Nelson S,Johnston C,Soininen H,Kloszewska I,Mecocci P,Tsolaki M,Vellas B,Hodges A,Lovestone S,Newhouse S,Dobson RJ,Kiddle SJ,Sattlecker M2015-08-03 ADBiomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: a controversial topicLancet Neurol.2015 Aug;14(8):781-3Frisoni GB,Visser PJ2015-08-01 ADGeneralizability of the disease state index prediction model for identifying patient progressing from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.J Alzheimers Dis.2015;44(1):79-92Hall A,Muoz-Ruiz M,Mattila J,Koikkalainen J,Tsolaki M,Mecocci P,Kloszewska I,Vellas B,Lovestone S,Visser PJ,Ltjonen J,Soininen H;Alzheimer DiseaseNeuroimaging Initiative;AddNeuroMed consortium;DESCRIPA and Kuopio L-MCI.2015-07-07 ADBlood protein marker of Neocortical Amyloid Burden: A candidate study using SOMAscan technologyJ Alzheimers Dis.2015 Jun 26;46(4):947Voyle N,Baker D,Burnham SC,Covin A,Zhang Z,Sangurdekar DP,Tan Hehir CA,Bazenet C,Lovestone S,Kiddle S,Dobson RJ2015-07-01 ADCerebrospinal fluid P-tau181P: biomarker for improved differential diagnosisFront Neurol.2015 Jun 17;6:138Struyfs H,Niemantsverdriet E,Goossens J,Fransen E,Martin JJ,De Deyn PP,Engelborghs S2015-06-17 ADPlasma protein biomarkers of Alzheimers disease endophenotypes in asymptomatic older twins: early cognitive decline and regional brain volumesTransl Psychiatry.2015 Jun 16;5:e584Kiddle SJ,Steves CJ,Mehta M,Simmons A,Xu X,Newhouse S,Sattlecker M,Ashton NJ,Bazenet C,Killick R,Adnan J,Westman E,Nelson S,Soininen H,Kloszewska I,Mecocci P,Tsolaki M,Vellas B,Curtis C,Breen G,Williams SC,Lovestone S,Spector TD,Dobson RJ2015-06-16 MetabolicAssociations between potentially modifiable risk factor and Alzheimers disease: A Mendelian randomization studyPLoS Med.2015 Jun 16;12(6):e1001841stergaard SD,Mukherjee S,Sharp SJ,Proitsi P,Lotta LA,Day F,Perry JR,Boehme KL,Walter S,Kauwe JS,Gibbons LE;Alzheimers Disease Genetics Consortium;GERAD1 Consortium;EPIC-InterAct Consortium,Larson EB,Powell JF,Langenberg C,Crane PK,Wareham NJ,Scott RA2015-06-09 ADPrevalence of cerebral amyloid pathology in person without dementia: a meta-analysisJAMA. 2015 May 19; 313(19): 19241938Jansen WJ,Ossenkoppele R,Knol DL,Tijms BM, Scheltens P,Verhey FRJ, Visser PJ, and the Amyloid Biomarker Study Group2015-05-19 ADTemporal evolution of biomarkers and cognitive marker in the asymptomatic, MCI, and dementia stage of Alzheimer's diseaseAlzheimers Dement.2015 May;11(5):511-22Bertens D,Knol DL,Scheltens P,Visser PJ;Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative2015-05-01 ADImportance and impact of pre-analytical variable on Alzheimers disease biomarker level in cerebrospinal fluidClin Chem Apr 2015; 61(5):734-743Le Bastard N, De Deyn PP, Engelborghs S2015-04-13 ADPrevalence and prognosis of Alzheimers disease at the mild cognitive impairment stageBrain.2015 May;138(Pt 5):1327-38Vos SJ,Verhey F,Frlich L,Kornhuber J,Wiltfang J,Maier W,Peters O,Rther E,Nobili F,Morbelli S,Frisoni GB,Drzezga A,Didic M,van Berckel BN,Simmons A,Soininen H,Kloszewska I,Mecocci P,Tsolaki M,Vellas B,Lovestone S,Muscio C,Herukka SK,Salmon E,Bastin C,Wallin A,Nordlund A,de Mendona A,Silva D,Santana I,Lemos R,Engelborghs S,Van der Mussele S;Alzheimers Disease Neuroimaging Initiative,Freund-Levi Y,Wallin K,Hampel H,van der Flier W,Scheltens P,Visser PJ2015-02-18 MetabolicAdipose Tissue Morphology Predicts Improved Insulin Sensitivity Following Moderate Weight LossInt J Obes (Lond).2015 Jun;39(6):893-8Eriksson-Hogling D,Andersson DP,Bckdahl J,Hoffstedt J,Rssner S,Thorell A,Arner E,Arner P,Rydn M2015-02-10 ADLinking genetics of brain change to Alzheimers disease: sparse whole genome association scan of regional MRI volume in the ADNI and AddNeuroMed cohortsJ Alzheimers Dis.2015;45(3):851-64Khondoker M,Newhouse S,Westman E,Muehlboeck JS,Mecocci P,Vellas B,Tsolaki M,Kloszewska I,Soininen H,Lovestone S,Dobson R,Simmons A;AddNeuroMed consortium;Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative2015-02-03 ADAn Integrated Workflow for Multiplex CSF Proteomics and Peptidomics-Identification of Candidate Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers of Alzheimer's DiseaseJ Proteome Res.2015 Feb 6;14(2):654-63Hltt M,Minthon L,Hansson O,Holmn-Larsson J,Pike I,Ward M,Kuhn K,Retschi U,Zetterberg H,Blennow K,Gobom J2015-02-01 ADTDP-43 a a possible biomarker for frontotemporal lobar degeneration: a systematic review of existing antibodiesActa Neuropathol Commun.2015 Apr 1;3:15Goossens J,Vanmechelen E,Trojanowski JQ,Lee VM,Van Broeckhoven C,van der Zee J,Engelborghs S2015-02-01 ADOverdiagnosing vascular dementia using structural brain imaging for dementia work-upJ Alzheimers Dis.2015;45(4):1039-43Niemantsverdriet E,Feyen BF,Le Bastard N,Martin JJ,Goeman J,De Deyn PP,Engelborghs S2015-01-15 ADPlasma lipidomics analysis find long chain cholesteryl ester to be associated with Alzheimers diseaseTransl Psychiatry.2015 Jan 13;5:e494Proitsi P,Kim M,Whiley L,Pritchard M,Leung R,Soininen H,Kloszewska I,Mecocci P,Tsolaki M,Vellas B,Sham P,Lovestone S,Powell JF,Dobson RJ,Legido-Quigley C2015-01-13 ADDiagnostic accuracy of CSF amyloid- isoforms for early and differential dementia diagnosisJ Alzheimers Dis.2015;45(3):813-22Struyfs H,Van Broeck B,Timmers M,Fransen E,Sleegers K,Van Broeckhoven C,De Deyn PP,Streffer JR,Mercken M,Engelborghs S2015-01-01 PlatformReuse of EHRs to Support Clinical Research in a Hospital of ReferenceStud Health Technol Inform.2015;210:224-6Mayer MA,Furlong LI,Torre P,Planas I,Cots F,Izquierdo E,Portabella J,Rovira J,Gutierrez-Sacristan A,Sanz F2015-01-01 ADBlood protein predictor of brain amyloid for enrichment in clinical trials?Alzheimers & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease Monitoring 1 (2015) 4860Ashton NJ, Kiddle SJ, Graf J, Ward M, Baird AL, Hye A, Westwood S, Wonga KV, Dobson RJ, Rabinovici GD, Miller BL, Rosen HJ, Torres A, Zhang Z, Thurfjell L, Covini A, Tan Hehir C, Baker D, Bazenet C, Lovestone S, on behalf of the AIBL Research Group2015-03-01 MetabolicCirculating triacylglycerol signature and insulin sensitivity in NAFLD associated with the E167K variant in TM6SF2J Hepatol 2015 Mar; 62(3):657-63Zhou Y, Llaurad G, Oresic M, Hytylinen T, Orho-Melander M, Yki-Jrvinen H2015-03-01 ADLongitudinal protein change in blood plasma associated with the rate of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's diseaseJ Alzheimers Dis.2015;49(4):1105-14Sattlecker M, Khondoker M, Proitsi P, Williams S, Soininen H, Kloszewska I, Mecocci P, Tsolaki M, Vellas B, Lovestone S, Dobson RJ2015-11-23 MetabolicAdipose tissue fatty acid chain length and mono-unsaturation increase with obesity and insulin resistanceSci Rep 2015 Dec 17;5:18366Yew Tan C, Virtue S, Murfitt S, Robert LD, Phua YH, Dale M, Griffin JL, Tinahones F, Scherer PE, Vidal-Puig A2015-12-17 MetabolicBody mass index and risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: Two electronic health record prospective studiesJ Clin Endocrinol Metab 2016 Mar;101(3):945-52Loomis AK, Kabadi S, Preiss D, Hyde C, Bonato V, St Louis M, Desai J, Gill JM, Welsh P, Waterworth D, Sattar N2015-12-16 MetabolicDefinitions of Metabolic Health and Risk of Future Type 2 Diabetes in BMI categories: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-AnalysisDiabetes Care 2015 Nov;38(11):2177-87Lotta LA, Abbasi A, Sharp SJ, Sahlqvsit AS, Waterworth D, Brosnan JM, Scott RA, Langenberg C, Wareham NJ2015-11-01 MetabolicEvidence of a causal association between hyperinsulinaemia and endometrial cancer: A Mendelian randomization analysisJ Natl Cancer Inst 2015 Jul 1;107(9): pii: djv178Nead KT, Sharp SJ, Thompson DJ, Painter JN, Savage DB, Semple RK, Barker A, Australian National Endometrial Cancer Study Group (ANECS), Perry JR, Attia J, Dunning AM, Easton DF, Holliday E, Lott LA, O'Mara T, McEvoy M, Pharoah PD, Scott RJ, Spurdle AB, Langenberg C, Wareham NJ, Scott RA2015-07-01 ADAlzheimer's disease: a report from the 7th Kuopio Azheimer symposiumNeurodegener Dis Manag 2015 Oct;5(5):379-82Haapasalo A, Pikkarainen M, Soininen H2015-10-29 ADA Pathway Based Classification Method for Analyzing Gene Expression for Alzheimer's Disease DiagnosisJ Alzheimers Dis 2015 Oct 15;49(3):659-69Voyle N, Keohane A, Newhouse S, Lunnon K, Johnston C, Soininen H Kloszewska I, Mecocci P, Tsolaki M, Vellas B, Lovestone S, Hodges A, Kiddle S, Dobson RJ2015-10-15 MetabolicType 2 diabetes in migrant South Asians: mechanisms, mitigation and managementLancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2015 Dec;3(12):1004-16Sattar N, Gill JM2015-12-01 MetabolicExtensive weight loss reveals distinct gene expression change in human subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissueSci Rep 2015 Oct 5;5:14841Mardinoglu A, Heiker JT, Grtner D, Bjrnson E, Schn MR, Flehmig G, Klting N, Krohn K, Fasshauer M, Stumvoll M, Nielsen J, Blher M2015-10-05 PlatformChallenges and opportunity for exploring patient-level dataBiomed Res Int 2015;2015:150435Lopes P, Bastio Silva L, Oliveira JL2015-10-04 MetabolicThe UK10K project identifies rare variant in health and diseaseNature 2015 Oct 1;526(7571):82-90UK10K Consortium, Walter K, Min JL, Huang J, Crooks L, Memari Y, McCarthy S, Perry JR, Xu C, Futema M, Lawson D, Iotchkova V, Schiffels S, Hendricks AE, Danecek P, Li R, Floyd J, Wain LV, Barroso I, Humphries SE, Hurles ME, Zeggini E, Barrett JC, Plagnol V, Richards JB, Greenwood CM, Timpson NJ, Durbin R, Soranzo N2015-10-01 ADThe genetic landscape of Alzheimer's disease: clinical implication and perspectivesGenet Med 2015 Aug 27Van Cauwenberghe C, Van Broeckhoven C, Sleegers K2015-08-27 MetabolicThe epigenetic signature of subcutaneous fat is linked to altered expression of gene implicated in lipid metabolism in obese womenClin Epigenetics 2015 Sep 8;7(1):93Arner P, Sinha I, Thorell A, Rydn M, Dahlman-Wright K, Dahlman I2015-09-08 MetabolicTyrosine is associated with insulin resistance in longitudinal metabolomic profiling of obese childrenJ Diabetes Res 2016;2016Hellmuth C, Kirchberg FF, Lass N, Harder U, Peissner W, Koletzko B, Reinehr T2015-09-06 ADCurrent development in dementia risk prediction modelling: An updated systematic reviewPLoS One 2015 Sep 3;10(9):2136181Tang EY, Harrison SL, Errington L, Gordon MF, Visser PJ, Novak G, Dufouil C, Brayne C, Robinson L, Launer LJ, Stephan BC2015-09-03 PlatformCaf Variome: General-Purpose Software for Making Genotype-Phenotype Data Discoverable in Restricted or Open Access ContextsHum Mutat 2015 Oct;36(10):957-64Lancaster O, Beck T, Atlan D, Swertz M, Thangavelu D, Veal C, Dalgleish R, Brookes AJ2015-08-25 PlatformArchitecture to summarize patient-level data across border and countriesStud Health Technol Inform 2015;216:687-90Bastio Silva LA, Das C, van der Lei J, Oliveira JL2015-08-19 ADBlood metabolite marker of neocortical amyloid- burden: Discovery and enrichment using candidate proteinsTransl Psychiatry 2016 Jan 26;6:e719Voyle N, Kim M, Proitsi P, Ashton NJ, Baird AL, Bazenet C, Hye A, Westwood S, Chung R, Ward M, Rabinovici GD, Lovestone S, Breen G, Legido-Quigley C, Dobson RJ, Kiddle SJ2015-08-18 ADC-terminal neurogranin is increased in cerebrospinal fluid but unchanged in plasma in Alzheimer's diseaseAlzheimers Dement 2015 Dec;11(12):1461-9De Vos A, Jacobs D, Struyfs H, Fransen E, Andersson K, Portelius E, Andreasson U, De Surgeloose D, Hernalsteen D, Sleegers K, Robberecht C, Van Broeckhoven C, Zetterberg H, Blennow K, Engelborghs S, Vanmechelen E2015-12-01 ADPrevalence of Amyloid PET Positivity in Dementia Syndromes: A Meta-AnalysisJAMA 2015 May 19;313(19):1939-49Ossenkoppele R, Jansen WJ, Rabinovici GD, Knol DL, van der Flier WM, van Berckel BN, Scheltens P, Visser PJ, Amyloid PET Study Group, Verfaillie SC, Zwan MD, Adriaanse SM, Lammertsma AA, Barkhof F, Jaqust WJ, Miller BL, Rosen HJ, Landau SM, Villemagne VL, Rowe CC, Lee DY, Na DL, Seo SW, Sarazin M Roe CM, Sabri O, Barthel H, Koglin N, Hodges J, Leyton CE, Vandenberghe R, van Laere K, Drzezga A, Forster S, Grimmer T, Snchez-Juan P, Carril JM, Mok V, Camus V, Klunk WE, Cohen AD, Meyer PT, Hellwig S, Newberg A, Frederiksen KS, Fleisher AS, Mintun MA, Wolk DA, Nordberg A, Rinne JO, Chtelat G, Lleo A, Blesa R, Fortea J, Madasen K, Rodrigue KM, Brooks DJ2015-05-19 MetabolicThe fat cell epigenetic signature in post-obese woman is characterized by global hypomethylation and differential DNA methylation of adipogenesis genesInt J Obes (Lond) 2015 Jun;39(6):910-9Dahlman I, Sinha I, Gao H, Brodin D, Thorell A, Rydn M, Andersson DO, Henriksson J, Perfilyev A, Ling C, Dahlman-Wright K, Arner P2015-03-18 ADAlzheimer's disease cerebrospinal fluid biomarker in cognitively normal subjectsBrain 2015 Sep;138(Pt9):2701-15Toledo JB, Zetterberg H, van Harten AC, Glodzik L, Martinez-Lage P, Bocchio-Chiavetto L, Rami L, Hansson O, Sperling R, Engelborghs S, Osorio RS, Vanderstichele H, Vandijck M, Hampel H, Teipl S, Moghekar A, Albert M, Hu WT, Monge Argils JA, Gorostidi A, Teunissen CE, De Deyn PP, Hyman BT, Molinuevo JL, Frisoni GB, Linazasoro G, de Leon MJ, van der Flier WM, Scheltens O, Blennow K, Shaw LM, Trojanowski JQ, Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative2015-07-28 ADDiffusion kurtosis imaging: a biomarker for early diagnosis of Alzheimers disease?J Alzheimers Dis.2015; 48(4):937-48Struyfs H, Van Hecke W, Veraart J, Sijbers J, Slaets S, De Belder M, Wuyts L, Peters B, Sleegers K, Robberecht C, Van Broeckhoven C, De Belder F, Parizel PM, Engelborghs S2015-10-27 2014 LINKTOPICTITLEREFERENCEAUTHOR(S)DATE ADA 22-SNP Alzheimer risk score correlate with family history, onset age and CSF A42Alzheimers Dement.2015 Jun 15. pii: S1552-5260(15)00191-0Sleegers,Bettens,De Roeck,Van Cauwenberghe,Cuyvers,Verheijen J,Struyfs H,Van Dongen J,Vermeulen S,Engelborghs S,Vandenbulcke M,Vandenberghe R,De Deyn PP,Van Broeckhoven C;BELNEU consortium2014-12-26 ADDiagnostic value of MIBG cardiac scintigraphy for differential dementia diagnosisInt J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Aug;30(8):864-9Slaets S, Van Acker F, Versijpt J, Hauth L, Goeman J, Martin JJ, De Deyn PP, Engelborghs S2014-11-03 MetabolicFamily history of type 2 diabetes increase the risk of both obesity and it complications: is type 2 diabetes a disease of inappropriate lipid storage?J Intern Med.2015 May;277(5):540-51Cederberg H,Stanckov A,Kuusisto J,Laakso M,Smith U2014-01-09 MetabolicType 2 diabetes a a disease of ectopic fat?BMC Med. 2014 Aug 26;12:123Sattar N, Gill JM2014-08-26 ADTemporal evolution of biomarkers and cognitive marker in the asymptomatic, MCI, and dementia stage of Alzheimer's diseaseAlzheimers Dement. 2015 May;11(5):511-22Bertens D, Knol DL, Scheltens P, Visser PJ; Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative2014-08-20 ADCirculating Proteomic Signatures of Chronological AgeJ Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci.2015 Jul;70(7):809-16Menni C,Kiddle SJ,Mangino M,Viuela A,Psatha M,Steves C,Sattlecker M,Buil A,Newhouse S,Nelson S,Williams S,Voyle N,Soininen H,Kloszewska I,Mecocci P,Tsolaki M,Vellas B,Lovestone S,Spector TD,Dobson R,Valdes AM2014-08-14 MetabolicHypomorphism in human NSMCE2 linked to primordial dwarfism and insulin resistanceJ Clin Invest.2014 Sep;124(9):4028-38Payne F,Colnaghi R,Rocha N,Seth A,Harris J,Carpenter G,Bottomley WE,Wheeler E,Wong S,Saudek V,Savage D,O'Rahilly S,Carel JC,Barroso I,O'Driscoll M,Semple R2014-08-08 ADDepression in mild cognitive impairment is associated with progression to Alzheimer's disease: a longitudinal studyJ Alzheimers Dis. 2014;42(4):1239-50Van der Mussele S, Fransen E, Struyfs H, Luyckx J, Marin P, Saerens J, Somers N, Goeman J, De Deyn PP, Engelborghs S2014-07-07 ADPlasma protein predict conversion to dementia from prodromal diseaseAlzheimers Dement.2014 Nov;10(6):799-807Hye A,Riddoch-Contreras J,Baird AL,Ashton NJ,Bazenet C,Leung R,Westman E,Simmons A,Dobson R,Sattlecker M,Lupton M,Lunnon K,Keohane A,Ward M,Pike I,Zucht HD,Pepin D,Zheng W,Tunnicliffe A,Richardson J,Gauthier S,Soininen H,Kloszewska I,Mecocci P,Tsolaki M,Vellas B,Lovestone S2014-07-03 MetabolicMutations disrupting the Kennedy phosphatidylcholine pathway in human with congenital lipodystrophy and fatty liver diseaseProc Natl Acad Sci U S A.2014 Jun 17;111(24):8901-6Payne F,Lim K,Girousse A,Brown RJ,Kory N,Robbins A,Xue Y,Sleigh A,Cochran E,Adams C,Dev Borman A,Russel-Jones D,Gorden P,Semple RK,Saudek V,O'Rahilly S,Walther TC,Barroso I,Savage DB2014-06-17 PlatformEgas: a collaborative and interactive document curation platformDatabase (Oxford).2014 Jun 11;2014. pii: bau048Campos D,Loureno J,Matos S,Oliveira JL2014-06-11 ADValidation of the AD-CSF-index in autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer's disease patient and healthy controlsJ Alzheimers Dis.2014;41(3):903-9Struyfs H, Molinuevo JL, Martin JJ, De Deyn PP, Engelborghs S2014-04-04 MetabolicChanges in the serum metabolite profile in obese child with weight lossEur J Nutr.2015 Mar;54(2):173-81Reinehr T, Wolters B, Knop C, Lass N, Hellmuth C, Harder U, Peissner W, Wahl S, Grallert H, Adamski J, Illig T, Prehn C, Yu Z, Wang-Sattler R, Koletzko B2014-04-17 AD, MetabolicAdvanced glycation end products, dementia and diabetesProc Natl Acad Sci U S A.2014 Apr 1;111(13):4743-4Lovestone S, Smith U2014-04-01 MetabolicA population-based study on the prevalence of NASH using score validated against liver histologyJ Hepatol. 2014 Apr;60(4):839-46Hyysalo J, Mnnist VT, Zhou Y, Arola J, Krj V, Leivonen M, Juuti A, Jaser N, Lallukka S, Kkel P, Venesmaa S, Simonen M, Saltevo J, Moilanen L, Korpi-Hyvalti E, Keinnen-Kiukaanniemi S, Oksa H, Orho-Melander M, Valenti L, Fargion S, Pihlajamki J, Peltonen M, Yki-Jrvinen H2014-04-01 MetabolicCirculating Triacylglycerol Signatures in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Associated With the I148M Variant in PNPLA3 and With ObesityDiabetes. 2014 Jan;63(1):312-22Hyysalo J, Gopalacharyulu, Bian H, Hytylinen T, Leivonen M, Jaser N, Juuti A, Honka MJ, Nuutila P, Olkkonen VM, Oresic M, Yki-Jrvinen H2014-01-01 MetabolicAdipose Tissue CIDEA is Associated, Independently of Weight Variation, to Change in Insulin Resistance during a Longitudinal Weight Control Dietary Program in Obese IndividualsPLoS One 2014 Jul; 9(7):e98707Monastier E, Djean S, Le Gall C, Saris WH, Langin D, Viguerie N2014-07-01 PlatformMedical imaging archiving: a comparison between several NoSQL solutionsBHI. 2014, Jun;65-68.LAB Silva, L Beroud, C Costa, JL Oliveira2014-06-01 PlatformNormalizing medical imaging archive for dose quality assurance and productivity auditingMeMeA. 2014, Jun;1-6.LAB Silva, L Ribeiro, C Costa, JL Oliveira, M Santos2014-06-11 PlatformSemantic search over DICOM repositories2014 IEEE International Conference on Healthcare Informatics (ICHI). 204, Sept 15-17, p238-246.LAB Silva, C Costa, JL Oliveira2014-09-15 2013 LINKTOPICTITLEREFERENCEAUTHOR(S)DATE ADUnresolved question in Alzheimer's research - will biomarkers help?Biomark Med. 2014;8(1):61-3Zetterberg H2013-12-14 MetabolicPrediction of non-alcoholic fatty-liver disease and liver fat content by serum molecular lipids.Diabetologia. 2013 Oct;56(10):2266-74Oreic M, Hytylinen T, Kotronen A, Gopalacharyulu P, Nygren H, Arola J, Castillo S, Mattila I, Hakkarainen A, Borra RJ, Honka MJ, Verrijken A, Francque S, Iozzo P, Leivonen M, Jaser N, Juuti A, Srensen TI, Nuutila P, Van Gaal L, Yki-Jrvinen H2013-07-04 ADPreclinical Alzheimers disease and it outcome: a longitudinal cohort studyLancet Neurol. 2013 Oct;12(10):957-65Vos SJ, Xiong C, Visser PJ, Jasielec MS, Hassenstab J, Grant EA, Cairns NJ, Morris JC, Holtzman DM, Fagan AM2013-01-15 All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 04-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation DELIVERABLES Deliverables EXECUTIVE SUMMARYTOPICDELIVERABLEDATE PlatformD15.8 - Final report on outreach activities2018-06-30 PlatformD15.7 - Final Business Plan2018-06-30 PlatformD14.12 - EMIF Platform2018-06-30 PlatformD14.11 - System implementation feedback and evaluation report 42018-06-30 PlatformD13.6 - Final suite of module and tool for data analysis2018-06-30 PlatformD12.7 - Final report on data flow data integration processing and linkage2018-06-30 PlatformD12.6 - Final version data extraction software2018-06-30 PlatformD11.6 - Final Report on Harmonisation and Semantics2018-06-30 PlatformD10.5 - Final version of the EMIF Code of Practice2018-06-30 PlatformD9.5 - Final evaluation result and roadmap for future development2018-06-30 MetabolicD8.5 - Scientific publication describing the use of clinical trial and population-based study to investigate the natural history of NAFLD2018-06-30 MetabolicD8.4 - Legal and Ethical Framework established2018-06-30 MetabolicD8.3 - Evaluation of liver function test in placebo group from existing clinical trial to try to determine factor that influence the nature2018-06-30 MetabolicD8.2 - Study report or manuscript on the calibration of the Framingham Risk score in European NAFLD patients2018-06-30 MetabolicD8.1 - Test efficiency with respect to identification of clinical trial subject and feasibility of recruitment2018-06-30 MetabolicD7.4 - Report describing test of algorithm for clinical outcome in diverse population of obese adult and children2018-06-30 MetabolicD7.3 - Development of algorithm to predict clinical outcome in obese adult and children2018-06-30 MetabolicD7.2 - Protocols for EMR data extraction and analysis to understand risk factor associated with metabolic diseases2018-06-30 MetabolicD7.1 - A report on the prevalence and overlap between obesity and the four endpoint of interest in a real world setting2018-06-30 MetabolicD6.7 - Report describing the association of potentially causal biomarkers with clinical outcome in large-scale case-cohort studies2018-06-30 MetabolicD6.6 - Report describing causal significance of biomarkers associated with metabolic consequence of obesity2018-06-30 MetabolicD6.5 - Completion of a report describing the association of up to 6 novel biomarkers emerging from WP5 with the metabolic consequence of obesity2018-06-30 MetabolicD5.4 - Identify potential target for drug development and diagnostic test which meet standard clinical sensitivity and specificity criteria2018-06-30 MetabolicD5.3 - Functional assessment of novel biomarkers in cell models2018-06-30 MetabolicD5.2 - Identify novel biomarkers of risk in extreme phenotype which exhibit adequate sensitivity and specificity2018-06-30 ADD4.2 - Screening algorithm tested and defined2018-06-30 ADD4.1 - Report on cross-validated plasma, genetic, CSF, MRI marker for diagnosis for predementia of AD2018-06-30 ADD3.14 - Report joint study AD-Metabolic2018-06-30 ADD3.13 - 10 Assays of biomarkers for clinical use2018-06-30 ADD3.12 - Integrative model of biomarkers from different modalities2018-06-30 ADD3.11 - 2 novel combinatorial MRI marker algorithm for prognosis2018-06-30 ADD3.8 - 4 Epigenomic profile associated with abnormal AD CSF biomarkers2018-06-30 ADD3.6 - 4 GWAS-identified SNPs for abnormal CSF abeta and tau and hippocampal atrophy2018-06-30 ADD3.4 - 2 Metabolomics based plasma marker for diagnosis2018-06-30 ADD3.2 - 4 Proteomic based plasma marker for prognosis2018-06-30 ADD3.1 - 4 Proteomic based plasma marker for diagnosis2018-06-30 ADD2.6 - Definition of extreme phenotype based on resilience to dementia2018-06-30 ADD2.2 - Validated criterion for presymptomatic AD and prodromal AD2018-06-30 ADD1.5 - Cohort of cognitively normal subject with 2-year follow-up data2018-06-30 ADD1.4 - Cohort of cognitively normal subject with AD biomarkers baseline data2018-06-30 ADD1.3 - Dataset with EHR data linked to research cohort data2018-06-30 ADD3.10 -Novel combinatorial MRI marker algorithm for diagnosis2016-12-31 PlatformD9.4 -Second framework evaluation result and requirement v32016-12-31 PlatformD10.4 -First draft of the EMIF Ethical Code of Practice2016-12-31 PlatformD11.5 -Second version of the harmonised information model and associated terminology mapping2016-12-31 PlatformD14.9 - System implementation feedback and evaluation report, iteration 32016-12-31 PlatformD14.10 -EMIF Platform, version 42016-12-31 PlatformD15.6 -Update to Business Plan - February 20172016-12-31 PMOD16.16 -Technical and Financial Annual Reports #42016-12-31 ADD3.3 -2 Proteomic based CSF marker for prognosis2016-12-31 ADD1.2 - Private Remote Research database environment with pooled data from research cohorts2015-06-30 ADD2.1 - Summary statistic of cohort included2015-12-31 ADD2.2 - Validated criterion for presymptomatic AD and prodromal AD2015-12-31 ADD2.3 - Definition of extreme phenotype based on cognitive decline2015-12-31 ADD2.4 - Prediction model for cognitive decline2015-12-31 ADD2.5 - Definition of extreme phenotype based on AD biomarkers2015-12-31 ADD1.1 - Report on the overview of available data sources2013-12-31 MetabolicD5.1 - Establishing functional datawarehousing and management2013-12-31 MetabolicD6.1 - Analytical framework to investigate metabolic predictor of the complication of obesity2013-12-31 MetabolicD6.2 - A report describing the systematic review of candidate biomarkers for the prediction of the metabolic consequence of obesity2014-06-30 MetabolicD6.8 - Investigation of the causal nature of association between obesity and selected obesity-related complications2014-12-31 MetabolicD6.3 - A report describing the association of up to 6 candidate biomarkers with metabolic trait in up to 20 000 participant in well-phenotyped metabolically phenotyped studies2015-12-31 MetabolicD6.4 - A report describing the association of a metabolomic profile with the metabolic complication of obesity in up to 20 000 participant in well-phenotyped metabolically phenotyped studies2015-12-31 PlatformD9.2 - Platform requirement v1 and evaluation plan2013-12-31 PlatformD10.3 - Full database fingerprinting2013-12-31 PlatformD11.2 - First version of common data model and associated terminology mapping2013-12-31 PlatformD12.1 - Data extraction software v12013-12-31 PlatformD14.2 - A data management solution for vertical projects, version 12013-12-31 PlatformD14.3 - EMIF-Platform, version 12013-12-31 PlatformD15.1 - Report on business model for data exploitation in biosciences2013-12-31 PlatformD14.4 - System implementation feedback and evaluation report, iteration 12014-04-30 PlatformD11.3 - Extended specification of the semantic framework of reference2014-06-30 PlatformD13.1 - Evaluation of technology and tool available for data analysis and visualization2014-06-30 PlatformD9.1 - Initial requirement set2013-02-28 PlatformD15.2 - Market analysis: usage model and data source characterization2014-08-31 PlatformD9.3 - Interim framework evaluation result and requirement v22014-12-31 PlatformD12.2 - Data extraction software v22014-12-31 PlatformD12.3 - Interim report on primary data flows, benchmarking and quality analyses2014-12-31 PlatformD13.2 - Data analysis tool for vertical project v12014-12-31 PlatformD14.5 - A data management solution for vertical projects, v22014-12-31 PlatformD14.6 - EMIF-Platform, version 22014-12-31 PlatformD15.3 - Initial business model description2014-12-31 PlatformD11.4 - Second version of common data model and associated terminology mapping2014-12-31 PlatformD15.4 - First report on outreach activities: leveraging with related initiatives, contact with external data source and with key stakeholders2015-04-30 PlatformD10.1 - Initial database fingerprinting2013-03-31 PlatformD13.3 - Data analysis and visualization tools, including workflow for linkage with omics data v12015-06-30 PlatformD14.7 - First EMIF-Platform architecture stack2015-08-31 PlatformD11.4 - First complete version of the harmonised information model and associated terminology mapping2015-12-31 PlatformD12.4 - Interim report on data linkage2015-12-31 PlatformD12.5 - Interim report on specialised data extraction, benchmarking, aggregation and processing2015-12-31 PlatformD13.4 - Data analysis tool for vertical project v22015-12-31 PlatformD14.8 - EMIF-Platform, version 32015-12-31 PlatformD15.5 - First draft of business plan2015-12-31 PlatformD10.2 - First report on federation procedures, ethical and legal issues2013-06-30 PlatformD11.1 - Initial specification of the semantic framework of reference2013-06-30 PlatformD14.1 - First report on EMIF-Platform desing and architecture including specification for privacy protection tool and services2013-06-30 PlatformD13.5 - Data analysis and visualisation tools, including workflow for linkage with omics data v22016-10-31 PMOD16.1 - Operational portal to allow internal team information dissemination, team collaboration, and team document storage2013-01-31 PMOD16.12 - Technical and financial annual report #12013-12-31 PMOD16.11 - Updated project and risk plan for WP1-152014-12-31 PMOD16.13 - Technical and financial annual report #22014-12-31 PMOD16.2 - Templates for dissemination materials: logo design, ppt and poster templates, newsletter formats2013-03-31 PMOD16.14 - Interim assessment of the project2015-08-31 PMOD16.15 - Technical and financial annual report #32015-12-31 PMOD16.4 - Communication plan2013-06-30 PMOD16.5 - Project handbook2013-06-30 PMOD16.6 - Guidance document for EMIF scientific publications2013-06-30 PMOD16.9 - Operational website for both internal use and external dissemination2013-06-30 PMOD16.10 - Detailed project and risk plan for WP1-152013-06-30 All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 04-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF NEWSLETTER (MARCH 2017) March 2017 Use the button below to jump to each article in this issue. To Subscribe to the Newsletter, please complete the . MARCH 2017 01 The Enduring Success of EMIF: A Platform for FAIR Data and Collaboration EMIF AD-MET Joint GA Meeting, Budapest 2016 KEY POINTS The success of EMIF prof that the need for findable, accessible, and useful data continues to grow EMIF and IMI have created a model that effectively address the need for effective data collaboration The impact of EMIF and IMI is far reaching, and highlight the need for more of this kind of initiative CONTRIBUTORS SIMON lovestoneProfessor of Translational Neuroscience, Oxford University, Overall joint program lead for EMIF BART VannieuwenhuyseSenior Director RMEDS (Real World Evidence, Medical Affairs, Established Products, Statistics) Quantitative Sciences at Janssen, Coordinator of the overall EMIF project Since IMI began in 2008, it ha funded many successful program to improve healthcare across the EU, and EMIF ha been no exception. The accomplishment made through EMIF, especially with , , and , have produced a proven model for collaboration and data management in medical research. In doing so, EMIF is allowing research to happen at a speed and scale that wa previously not possible, say Bart Vannieuwenhuyse, Coordinator of the overall EMIF project, and Senior Director of RMEDS Qualitative Sciences at Janssen. To continue that progress, EMIF and IMI need your support. The Continuing Need for Usable Data 1A Simon Lovestone, Professor of Translational Neuroscience at Oxford University, and the overall joint program lead for EMIF, reveals that one of the thing that EMIF is attempting to resolve is this observation that we all make in science, that there is a vast amount of data that is underutilized. Technology ha enabled u to create and store mountain of data, but finding and utilizing it tends to be either impossible or impractical. That data exists in two forms. First, electronic health record (EHR) from routine patient care, which provide not only a huge sample size otherwise unattainable in traditional research, but also in-depth observational data collected from the experience of individual patients. Second, research data that ha already delivered value for a particular project, but could potentially be re-used for a number of other projects. EMIF is designed to tackle that, explains Simon. EMIF make data visible and provides the tool to access and analyze it. The includes multiple portals, including the EMIF-AD community, second from the left A FAIR Goal 1B The success of the EMIF initiative ha brought medical research to a new level by making data more FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interpretable, Reusable). To demonstrate this, take the EMIF-AD community in the EMIF Catalogue, which ha recently been made available to the public. Through the Catalogue, EMIF ha not only made data on Alzheimers Disease more visible, but ha also created tool to efficiently access and use that data by putting it in a common format. It ha been an, enormously difficult task, Simon admits, but the Catalogue is already demonstrating value. So far, program in Europe have already made use of it, including the(DPUK) and the(EPAD), another program funded through IMI. Take Action 1C The impact of EMIF and IMI have even made their way across the Atlantic Ocean. The , a United States law enacted by President Obama in December 2016, cite IMI a a successful example to emulate. The important work made possible through EMIF need to continue. Although EMIF, itself, is finite, it provides a successful model for future collaborative project in Europe, and the world. Contact or for idea to extend IMI and EMIFs impact through the rest of 2017, and beyond. MARCH 2017 02 Building Bridges: How EMIF Encourages Collaboration in Metabolic Research and Beyond KEY POINTS Collaboration between fields, industries, and sector ha been immensely fruitful Sharing data and collaboration between expert ha allowed researcher to take their discovery to the next level Support for the collaborative effort of IMI should continue even a EMIF begin to wind down CONTRIBUTORS ULF smithProfessor, University of Gothenburg, Project Lead of the Metabolic topic DAWN WATERWORTHDirector of Genetics, Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Dermatology, GSK, EFPIA lead of the Metabolic topic Regardless of field, EMIF ha been a vehicle for researcher to come together in way that were previously not feasible. That effect ha been particularly powerful in the field of metabolics, via .Two influential member of the metabolics community, Ulf Smith, Professor at the University of Gothenburg, and Project Lead of the Metabolic topic, and Dawn Waterworth, Director of Genetics, Cardiovascular, Metabolic, and Dermatology at GSK, and EFPIA lead of the Metabolic topic, reveal some of the benefit of that enhanced level of collaboration. Collaboration is King 2A Some of the most meaningful discovery and advancement are not possible if researcher dont have the infrastructure to go beyond their own field. Dawn explains that in order to get the full value from research, we need to seek out a variety of perspectives. The lesson [learned from EMIF] is that you have to reach outside your discipline, she says. EMIF ha provided the unique opportunity for researcher across Europe to do exactly that. In fact, recent a recent ha indicated that IMI initiative receive among the highest citation indexes, and involve collaboration of author across sectors, industries, nations, and disciplines. Ulf explains that researcher have gained connection that will endure even beyond EMIF. More than facilitated, it ha actually built those connection and relations, he says. Taking Discoveries to the Next Level 2B In a pre-EMIF research setting, scientist dug deep into small cohort and identified inspiring possibility through their projects, but, Ulf says, we dont get any further than to say, yes, it look promising in a limited number of individuals. When we have the opportunity to work with people who have done that in-depth research within different infrastructure and with different populations, it extremely rewarding, he says. Another rewarding experience are the truly novel result that have only become possible through the recent work of EMIF-MET. Ulf cite a particularly interesting which found that mannose is a circulating biomarker of insulin resistance and obesity-associated complications. We could not have done [this] without the different extremely carefully phenotyped cohort we collected in the EMIF Metabolic topic, say Ulf. Whats more, that is only the beginning. In the large follow-up study that will be submitted shortly, we have identified that mannose predicts future type two diabetes and cardiovascular disease, he adds. With over 40,000,000 de-identified patient record from across Europe available, researcher can look at the development of metabolic disease over time, or focus intervention on individual with high risk. That enables researcher to test, validate, and translate new idea into valuable concept that are potentially useful in area like disease development or therapy. EMIF and IMI make it possible to derive new insight from research. Whats Next 2C EMIF ha produced important work, which, need to be maintained, implores Ulf. The professional relationship that have been cultivated through EMIF will continue even a EMIF begin to wind down. A scientist in genetics, like Dawn, might have a wide network within the field of genetics, but EMIF and IMI broaden my reach, she says, adding that, it allows you to do better, more expansive science at the end of the day. That is why these collaboration need to continue, whether by supporting new IMI initiatives, or by broadening our professional networks. Left image: EMIF-Metabolic Project Achievements Take Action 2D Keep up with the contact you have made within EMIF, and continue to take advantage of networking opportunity that push you outside your field or sector. The connection we make will ensure we continue to press forward a a science community and develop innovation through research. Contact or to collaborate or network further withinor beyondthe field of metabolic disease. MARCH 2017 03 Reuse and Reconvening: Data Sharing and Networking in Alzheimers Disease Research KEY POINTS The benefit of reusing data through the EMIF project have been undeniable Bringing such a diversity of healthcare perspective together ha yielded wonderful unforeseen result The tool that have been developed through IMI have been a great help, but it is the people that make it all happen CONTRIBUTORS PIETER JELLE VISSERAssociate Professor, Maastricht University, VU University Medical Center, Project Lead of the AD topic JOHANNES STREFFERDirector Experimental Medicine, Janssen, EFPIA lead of the AD topic Medical researcher in Europe are looking at thing in new way thanks to EMIFs powerful new infrastructure for collaboration. Associate Professor Pieter Jelle Visser at Maastricht University and VU University Medical Center, and Johannes Streffer, Director of Experimental Medicine at Janssen, are both leader within the Alzheimers disease (AD) topic in EMIF, and represent the collaboration between academia and industry that is one of the core achievement of the EMIF initiative. Their insight about the success of shed light on the path ahead, a well. The Rewards of Reuse 3A The new infrastructure for collaboration provided by EMIF ha already proven to be a valuable tool to those searching for treatment associated with AD, especially a it impact on society continues to grow. Its a major disorder with a huge social and economic impact, and there is no treatment yet, explains Pieter Jelle. That lack of knowledge make the infrastructure created by EMIF especially important for disorder like AD. It allows u to reuse data that ha already been collected, significantly lowering the time and cost required to conduct research. One example is a of 50 cohort (10,000 subjects) worldwide that wa conducted recently, which took only two years. But, Pieter Jelle added, if we had collected 10,000 [subjects] from scratch it would have cost around 25 million Euros, and would have taken something like 10 years. Left image: EMIF-AD Project Achievements Everyone at One Table 3B Another major benefit created by EMIF-AD ha been getting industry and academia at one table and aligning on goals, say Johannes. It ha also fostered collaboration between different representative of the Pharma industry, and even researcher in completely different field who would never have had incentive to do so before. One benefit of bringing so many party together is that it allows u to get to know one anothers perspectives. Pieter Jelle explains an example: those in the field of metabolics often focus on how metabolic disorder affect obesity and mortality, while he, a a person working in AD research, is interested in how such disorder could affect the brain. (left to right) Suzanne Craft, Simon Lovestone, Hilkka Soininen, and Ulf Smith on a panel at theEMIF AD-MET joint meeting in Budapest, March 2016 Take Action 3C Pieter Jelle and Johannes are passionate about one topic in particular; that the work being done within EMIF-AD and IMI continues. The infrastructure and technology used to connect the medical research community in Europe ha been a wonderful collaborative tool, but it is not just a technological platform. Johannes insists that, beyond the technology involved in EMIF, the collaborative spirit that ha been so prevalent need to endure. That is what will take the success of EMIF to the next level, be it in AD research or beyond. Keep in touch with the connection youve made through EMIF, and reach outside your current research community to develop new relationships. Contact or with idea for working across field and sharing data, in support of AD or other research. MARCH 2017 04 The Human Side of Big Data: How EMIF-PLAT Is Paving New Roads in Medical Research KEY POINTS Despite some initial challenges, EMIF-PLAT is proving it worth and exceeding expectation EMIF-PLAT isnt just about changing technology, it about changing society Harmonization is possible: both with data, and with people CONTRIBUTORS NIGEL HUGHESEFPIA Coordinator EMIF-PLAT, Janssen Pharma R&D JOHAN VAN DER LEIAcademic Coordinator EMIF-PLAT, Professor at Erasmus University From it inception, the EMIF Platform () team worked to overcome technical and societal hurdles. Through constant evolution and refinement, they not only created a platform, they created a new way of conceiving whats possible for shared data in medical science. Already, the result of their work are validatingand inspiring. Nigel Hughes, EFPIA Coordinator of EMIF-PLAT, from Janssen R&D, and Johan Van Der Lei, Academic Coordinator of EMIF-PLAT and Professor at Erasmus University, agree that some of the more human and le measurable output have been among the most powerful. The collaborative spirit that brought so many great people together through EMIF will become essential to solving some of the most challenging healthcare and quality of life issue of our time. Building the Plane, Flying the Plane 4A When first decided to merge the , , and PLAT project within the EMIF proposal five year ago, the task of data harmonization wa met with a degree of skepticism. Data wa in the hand of so many different people and organizations, each with disparate way of storing and managing it. To tackle that, we are learning a we go, and building a we are learning, say Nigel. Some of that learning ha been about open source technology and to help systematize and standardize data collection and storage. But some of that learning ha been around the value of cross-field and even cross-project collaboration. In fact, EMIF-AD, EMIF-MET, and EMIF-PLAT, shouldnt and cant exist a separate projects, say Nigel. Although independent work is sometimes necessary, increasingly, in the second half of the EMIF project, more decision are being made based on dialogue between projects. For example, the platform wa conceived and created at the same time that the Alzheimers and metabolic team were expressing what they needed from the platform. So it wa like trying to fly a plane while youre still building it, reveals Nigel. The beauty of that simultaneous process wa that the EMIF-PLAT team built what real people and real project most need. Left Image: The detailed architectural view reveals two paths: population and cohort. To learn more about the technical aspect of EMIF-PLAT, contact or , or tune in to the next issue of the EMIF Newsletter. A Proven Need 4B One of the early win for EMIF-PLAT wa the ability to vastly improve the speed with which people can identify data sources. The is a systematised, meta-data driven listing of all data source within EMIF. In January 2017, the EMIF Data Catalogue wa released beyond the EMIF community. In le than two months, more than 300 bonafide researcher have already signed up to explore the 14 population data source and 46 EMIF-AD cohorts. The plan for the coming year, Johan says, is to expand capability so that those researcher can evaluate suitability and ultimately conduct study with data source collaborators. The is now available to bonafide researcher outside of EMIF The Long and Winding Road 4C In many ways, the bump in the road while building EMIF-PLAT have been more human than technological. Its a socio-technical issue! is something you may have heard if youve ever spoken with Johan. Yes, the data is just one and zeroes, but at the end of the day it people health data managed by universities, governments, and payers. That mean access is also about relationships, laws, and the intended use of that data. Ultimately it about gaining trust, say Nigel, and to do that, people need to see something that works. Guess What, It Works 4D The greatest legacy of EMIF-PLAT will certainly be harmonization. There are already many example of how harmonizing data vastly improves it usability for research, such a the partnership with the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics () collaboration, but EMIF-PLAT also focus on human harmonization. The most powerful tool that we have available to overcome our most pressing human challenges, medical or otherwise, is one another. EMIF-PLAT is already proving whats possible. And it just the beginning. Take Action 4E We all need to strive for meaningful collaborations. The EMIF-PLAT team look forward to collaborating with other project (IMI, IMI2, and others), a well a partner across industries, companies, fields, and sectors, whether public or private. We need to continue pushing for open source technology and open source idea to support open science. Instead of withholding lesson learned, Nigel and Johan want to share them. Whether youre an IT architect, bioinformatics expert, or ethicist, contact or if youd like to learn more about the social or technical aspect of EMIF-PLAT, or if youd like to share idea about harmonization and how to ensure the legacy of EMIF-PLAT life on. MARCH 2017 05 Big Data, Big Goals: IMI Projects Lead the Way in Harnessing the Power of Big Data KEY POINTS IMI ha already demonstrated the value of big data in several successful project Look out for these new project coming from IMI a we continue to work toward our goal Despite the legal and logistical difficulties, the value of big data is undeniable CONTRIBUTORS PIERRE MEULIENExecutive Director of the Innovative Medicines Initiative Big data analysis hold enormous potential for acquiring new and actionable medical knowledge. The increasing availability of database containing medical and research data, combined with growing analytic capability could lead to better treatment and improved outcome for patients. As the world largest public-private partnership in life sciences, the is perfectly placed to harness this potential and lay the groundwork for the reuse of clinical data in Europe. A History of Success 5A Several IMI project are already working towards this goal. A good example is one of IMIs older big data projects, , which started in 2011. By connecting electronic health record from 11 different hospital across Europe, this project created a platform which help researcher design clinical study and recruit patient to participate in them. The platform can connect securely to anonymized data within multiple hospital electronic health record system and clinical data warehouse across Europe, enabling researcher to predict the number of eligible patient for a candidate clinical trial protocol. It also help them to ass the feasibility of their trial and locate the most relevant hospital site for recruiting patients. Another IMI project in this field is , which focus on improving the translation of data from pre-clinical to clinical studies. It is a service project which us the open source tool, tranSMART, to provide access to different type of biological and clinical data in a well-structured environment. The project place a special emphasis on data cleaning and standardization to deliver high data quality and improve cross-study compatibility. More than 40 project have already benefited from it services. Among eTRIKSs achievement is the creation of the : a unique repository that contains description of IMI project databases. The catalogue is making it easier for researcher to find information on clinical datasets which may be available for reuse. And then, of course, there is EMIF, an IMI project which is using the power of big data to solve riddle in two big healthcare challenge of our time: metabolic disorder and Alzheimers disease. In order to improve our understanding of these diseases, the EMIF team is connecting a multitude of relevant data source across Europe. In the process, theyre addressing a number of data issues, including data standards, semantic interoperability, ethics, data privacy, and legal issues. The project is also developing an IT platform which will allow access to multiple data source and when it all done and finished may interlink data from up to 50 million adult across Europe. On the Horizon 5B Looking toward the future, new IMI project in this field are just starting, a part of IMIs Big Data for Better Outcomes (BD4BO) program launched in 2016. The program aim to facilitate the use of diverse data source to deliver outcome measure for treatment that are meaningful for patients, clinicians, regulators, researchers, and others. Disease-specific project addressing Alzheimers disease (), and blood cancer () have already started, and a project on cardiovascular disease will be launched soon. These project will look at the available clinical data from a multitude of sources, in each of their own disease areas, and then combine, standardize and analyze this data to obtain relevant outcome measures. Part of the same program is also a newly launched IMI project called DO->IT. Rather than focusing on a specific disease area, this project aim to generalize the result of the other BD4BO project to all disease areas. One of it main deliverable will be a generic, informed consent form template for participant in clinical trials. The language in this form will be formulated in a way to allow clinical data to be reused for other research purposes. The project will aim to disseminate the form among researcher and companies, so it is used a widely a possible. Apart from project that work on these issue directly, IMI want to instil good data practice into all of it projects. Prior to starting, all project are required to fill out a , which encourages team to think early on about collecting and storing their data according to good standards. The idea, of course, is to ensure that data generated in IMI project can be potentially combined with data generated elsewhere, and analyzed on a bigger scale. Take Action 5C As we move to an increasingly digital environment in healthcare, but also in society, big data will become a major determinant in how the future of medicine will be shaped. As a public-private partnership, involving a multitude of stakeholders, IMI project are leading the way in this field, creating a framework in which data across Europe could be shared more easily. The success of IMI project in this field ha the potential to persuade data holder across Europe that all the legal and logistical obstacle of clinical data reuse can be overcome, for the greater benefit of patients. Contact the to find out more aboutand get involved inthe continuing effort of IMI. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 08-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF NEWSLETTER (JUNE 2017) June2017 Use the button below to jump to each article in this issue. To Subscribe to the Newsletter, please complete the . JUNE 2017 01 The Power of Harmonization: EMIF Enables Large-Scale Analytics by Embracing the OMOP Common Data Model EMIF is currently mapping European data source to the OMOP CDM and is extending OHDSI tool such a . In order to properly answer some of the biggest research question of our timeincluding those that would help u solve the mystery of Alzheimers disease and metabolic diseaseswe need to ass large amount of data in a fully transparent and reproducible way. Standardization of data structure and language through a Common Data Model (CDM) enables this on an unprecedented scale. KEY POINTS Data harmonization is the process of translating data into a common format and common vocabulary to enable collaborative research and large-scale analytics. The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) ha a core objective of building an information framework for consistent re-use of available patient-level data to support novel research. The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) collaborative work toward the international implementation of the OMOP Common Data Model (CDM) and it standardized vocabularies. EMIF is currently mapping European data source to the OMOP CDM, and is extending OHDSI tool to enable the large-scale analytics that are key to EMIFs core objectives. CONTRIBUTORS MICHEL Van SpeybroeckDirector of Data Sciences at Janssen PETER Rijnbeek, PhDAssistant Professor at Erasmus University Medical Center JOHAN van der LeiAcademic Coordinator EMIF-PLAT, Professor at Erasmus University Medical Center Big Healthcare Data 1A Every moment, countless healthcare data point are generated and stored in digital database across Europe. Analyzing these datasets is a challenge, because data structure and content can vary greatly from one healthcare organization to the next. Data is collected for different purposes: clinical research, patient care, payer reimbursement, and more. This mean that the content and level of detail varies considerably. Datasets are stored in different format using different database management systems. Moreover, different code are used for the same medical concept across Europe, which creates additional challenges. How can we overcome these overwhelming barrier to performing multi-database study across Europe and beyond? EMIF Rises to the Challenge 1B The recognized these challenge from day one. Standardization wa initially done in the context of a specific research question on a limited set of variables. However, EMIF realized that this approach wa difficult to maintain when answering research question on a large scale. A substantial upfront standardization effort would be necessary for scalability. Additionally, study needed to be performed in a distributive manner to comply with governance and privacy rule by keeping standardized datasets within their local infrastructures. The only shared analytical datasets needed to be generated using a standardized processing pipeline. An Odyssey Toward Harmonization 1C EMIF found the solution to it challenge by embracing the (OHDSI, pronounced Odyssey) model of translating all the data into a single common structure and language. This concept is known a data harmonization (also sometimes called data standardization). representing the process of data harmonization using the OMOP Common Data Model. , a public-private partnership originally established in the US. The OMOP project developed the initial version of the , which can accommodate healthcare data from diverse source in a consistent and standardized way. OHDSIs mission is to improve health, by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. A key objective is to stimulate transparent and reproducible research for which the CDM is a prerequisite. Today, OHDSI is an international collaborative comprised of academics, industry scientists, healthcare providers, and regulator who have come together to create and apply open-source data analytic solution to a large network of health databases. Its a non-funded entity, supported by the generosity and passion of individual member a well a in-kind contribution from organization such a Columbia University and Johnson & Johnson. An inspiring spirit of global collaboration is what power OHDSI. EMIF and the Common Data Model 1d for many reasons. The OMOP CDM is a well-adopted model covering over 600 million patient life worldwide. All the code and tool are open source and publicly available, which stimulates collaborative tool improvement and transparency. Moreover, the currently available tool fit naturally with EMIFs objective to facilitate different level of data access. Workflow to map EMIF EHR data source to the OMOP CDM, leveraging OHDSI tool and experience. The CDM is most widely used in the US and Asia, and we are only beginning to scratch the surface of it use in Europe. We at EMIF are helping to prototype the CDM on the European continent. For example, were exploring whether there are level of detail in some European Electronic Health Records (EHR) that would be lost if we translated data to the CDM. Our peer and fellow collaborator at OHDSI are constantly adjusting the CDM and it vocabulary to accommodate those type of insights. The CDM is also evolving a healthcare evolves. As the OMOP Common Data Model expands to other continents, countries, and disease areas, the CDM expands thanks to the collaboration of OHDSI champion around the globe. Calling All Data Custodians 1F EMIF want to actively support the adoption of the OMOP CDM across Europe. If you are a data custodian in Europe who want to participate in this innovative data network, contact , , or to learn more. While mapping your data doe require a time commitment, EMIF is available to help. Additionally, there are on the ODHSI website and offered during the free-to-attend OHDSI symposia. Documents with best practice for converting data into the OMOP CDM are available on the . There are clear advantage to adopting that ODHSI and EMIF are working on. Thanks to the multi-disciplinary expertise of the OHDSI community, the quality and functionality of the tool is constantly being improved. And the process is open source from start to finish, so no license are ever needed. Perhaps most importantly, all data privacy concern are respected by keeping your data local. You are implementing the CDM yourself. Even if we at EMIF provide support with the technical side of the process, your data is still kept locally. Youll be able to maintain the privacy of your database while contributing to a worldwide effort to harmonize data. Your decision to map your database to the CDM mean that you are supporting the progress of reproducible scientific research on a local, national, and international level. Next Steps at EMIF 1G EMIF is actively mapping nine European data source to the OMOP CDM and OHDSI vocabularies: Denmark (AUH), Italy (ARS, IMS HEALTH LPD, PEDIANET), Spain (IMASIS, SIDIAP), UK (THIN), Estonia (EGCUT), and the Netherlands (IPCI, PHARMO). EMIF will produce a scientific paper this year that evaluates the mapping process of these European datasets and formulates suggestion for improving the CDM and it vocabularies. Furthermore, EMIF will continue the effort of extending and refining the OHDSI tool to meet it objectives. If we want data analysis at an unprecedented scale, along with fully transparent and reproducible research pipelines, we need to collectively harmonize our data structure and terminology. The OMOP CDM is clearly becoming the de facto standard for electronic health data across the world. EMIF recognizes this exciting new reality, from which all stakeholder will benefit: researchers, organizations, and most importantly patientswho are ultimately at the center of this global effort. If you are a researcher and want to explore more, please visit the . If you are a data custodian interested in learning more about the OMOP-CDM for your data source, contact , , or . JUNE 2017 02 With Knowledge Comes Responsibility: Harmonizing Cohort Data for EMIF-AD European Medical Information Framework for Alzheimers Disease (EMIF-AD) Work Package (WP) 1 team members, left to right: Pieter Jelle Visser, Stephanie Vos, and Isabelle Bos. () researcher Simon Lovestone, Pieter Jelle Visser, and Johannes Streffer led their team to identify potential fluid marker of brain amyloid in small study of cognitively normal people. They wanted to confirm their finding in a sample of 1,000 individuals, but didnt have the resource to assemble such a large cohort de novo. Luckily, one of EMIFs objective is to make it possible to re-use data instead of generating new data from a single purpose. Electronic Health Record (EHR) data is standardized through the ; however, for cohort data, another solution wa necessary. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) Catalogue allows user to quickly complete new research by identifying cohort via the EMIF Alzheimers disease (EMIF-AD) community. Analyses of large pooled datasets are made possible by the technical team who developed the idea of using knowledge object for the purpose of data harmonization. The EMIF-AD team invite data custodian and researcher to provide metadata about their cohort and share more data and research question to help crack the dementia code. CONTRIBUTORS RUDI VerbeeckSenior Manager at Janssen R&D IT ISABELLE BosNeuropsychologist and PhD Candidate at Maastricht University LUIZA Gabriel-ZeltzerPostdoctoral Researcher at Janssen R&D IT STEPHANIE VosNeuropsychologist and Postdoctoral Researcher at Maastricht University PIETER Jelle VisserAssociate Professor, Maastricht University, VU University Medical Center, Project Lead of the AD topic The Biomarker Discovery Study 2A Within EMIF-AD, project are divided into work package (WPs). WP 1 focus on the definition of study population data requirement and data collection. Members of the EMIF-AD WP 1 team (Pieter Jelle Visser, Stephanie Vos, and Isabelle Bos) consulted the AD community, an online community of existing cohort maintained by EMIFAD. They identified 11 suitable cohort with participant who had the characteristic the researcher were looking for in term of age, sex, cognitive status, amyloid biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or on positron imaging tomography (PET), and availability of MRI scan and fluid sample in plasma or CSF. The EMIF-AD WP 1 team contacted principal investigator of these cohort and all of them were interested to participate. Contracts were set-up to allow data-sharing and biomarker analysis. Data source owner harmonizedor translatedtheir local variable to a global set of variable so that the data could be used in the same study. In this way, a large cohort wa assembled quickly and inexpensively. The final Biomarker Discovery Study included 1,221 subjects. The data combined proteomics, genomics, metabolomics, and imaging data in a single analysis. This broad spectrum analysis in a large cohort of subject at various cognitive stage will provide new insight into underlying mechanism and facilitate the discovery of new diagnostic and prognostic marker for AD. This study is coordinated by Simon Lovestone, Johannes Streffer, and Pieter Jelle Visser in close collaboration with proteomics, metabolomics, transcriptomics, genomics, bioinformatics and imaging expert in EMIF-AD. Translating the Language of Science 2B The Biomarker Discovery Study and other analysis of large cohort were made possible by a collaboration between EMIF-AD researcher and the EMIF-Platform technical team who developed the idea of using knowledge object for the purpose of data harmonization. A knowledge object is a variable, plus all the information that you need in order to correctly interpret what that variable means. For instance, sex is a knowledge object included in the Biomarker Discovery Study, and male and female are common value for that knowledge object. Diagram envisioning the process of data harmonization, mapping local knowledge object to global knowledge objects. Data source appear on the left, while harmonized data appears on the right. When the EMIF-AD researcher gathered the data from 11 different study to assemble the EMIF-AD WP3 1000 cohort, they were in different language and none of them used exactly the same standard for recording variables. If they had tried to access the original data from the data sources, the variable sex might have appeared a genero or geschlecht. More obscure variable may have been difficult to interpret or impossible to translate to similar datasets without a common reference point. Thats why Rudi Verbeeck, Senior Manager at Janssen R&D IT and EMIF contributor, belief cohort data custodian play a crucial role in the quest to aggregate data. Only a data custodian know what the variable in their data source truly represent. Thanks to the EMIF-Platform team, custodian now have the power to define their local variable so their data can be translated to a standard set of global variables. Knowledge and Responsibility 2C If you have the knowledge, you have the responsibility, explains Rudi. Data custodian have knowledge about their data, so they are responsible for defining their local variables. Researchers know what point of data support their research, so they are responsible for identifying the variable they want to access. But who brings together the knowledge of the data custodian with the knowledge of the researcher so that data can be harmonized and large cohort can be analyzed? Isabelle Bos and Stephanie Vos, neuropsychologists and researcher at Maastricht University, are member of the EMIF-AD WP 1 team. Theyve chosen to take on this responsibility of helping data custodian translate their local knowledge object to global knowledge objects. If data custodian dont have the technical skill to map the data themselves, the data custodian specifies how the mapping should be done, then the EMIF-AD WP 1 team creates the code that need to be executed. There are currently 14 cohort on the data platform from across Europe (Netherlands, UK, Belgium, Spain, Italy, Sweden, France, Greece). The total number of subject across all 14 cohort is 3,423, and this number keep growing. Local knowledge object (LKO) appear on the left side of this semantic dependency graph. The local knowledge object are translated to global knowledge object (GKO) using snippet of code (represented by the arrows). Sometimes, there is a one-to-one correlation between a local knowledge object and a global knowledge object. Other times, multiple local knowledge object feed into a single global knowledge object through a series of standardizing equations. Building a Library 2D Over time, EMIF-Platform will continue building it library of reusable knowledge object and the snippet of code that connect them. If a researcher make a request in the EMIF Catalogue AD community for variable that havent been used before, those knowledge object will need to be mapped by the data custodian with support from the EMIF-AD WP 1 team. Since every research question add to the library, the probability of being able to reuse a knowledge object or snippet of code increase with every research question that come along. Our Common Goal 2E In order to tackle some of the biggest health challenge of our time, researcher must be able to conduct efficient and cost-effective data analysis on a large scale. For that, is a necessity. With a cohort of 100 subjects, you cant answer complex research questionsbut increase that cohort to 1,000, and you may uncover the kind of exciting result that the EMIF-AD group and their collaborator are seeing in the Biomarker Discovery Study. Before we can harmonize data, it need to be shared. If you own cohort-derived dataespecially if it includes biomarkersand would like to collaborate, please consider working with the EMIF-Platform team to harmonize your data using knowledge objects. Harmonized cohort data could lead to other breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimers. If you are a researcher, explore the data source already available through the AD and EHR communities, which were made publicly available to bona fide researcher outside of EMIF in January 2017. Every day, new people from around the world join the 309 user who have accessed the Data Catalogue a they work toward their research goals. If you could assemble huge cohort quickly and inexpensively, what kind of study would you create? What discovery might you spearhead? EMIF want to know and want to help you make them happen. JUNE 2017 03 Introducing Use Case 12: Using Electronic Health Record Data to Understand the Relationship Between Dementia and Inflammation An Oxford University research team is exploring the link between dementia and inflammatory diseases. The medical science and research community are pondering the relationship between dementia and inflammatory diseases. Alejo J. Nevado-Holgado and Danielle Newby, post-doctoral researcher at the University of Oxford, are exploring these link in more depth. They found themselves asking: Do inflammatory diseasesor the drug used to treat themchange the risk of dementia in later life? This compelling research question set the stage for Use Case 12, a project now underway within the. KEY POINTS By analyzing electronic health record (EHR) data through the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) platform, we can find out more about the link between inflammation and dementia. Use Case 12 is utilizing EMIFs visible, accessible, harmonized datasets to complete ground-breaking research about whether inflammatory disease or the drug used to treat them change the risk of dementia in later life. Later in 2017, look for published information that will likely assist in the development of therapy and treatment for dementia. CONTRIBUTORS DANIELLE NEWBYPost-doctoral researcher at University of Oxford, Data analyst of Use Case 12 ALEJO NEVADO-HOLGADOSenior post-doctoral researcher at University of Oxford, Lead of Use Case 12 project SIMON LOVEStoneProfessor of Translational Neuroscience at University of Oxford, Overall joint program lead for EMIF Challenges and Solutions 3A The motivated team at Oxford wa curious about the relationship between inflammatory diseases, anti-inflammatory drugs, and dementia. They saw an exiting opportunity to work from large, real-world, routine care datasets, but realized such study are challenging to perform. For one thing, large datasets are needed for analysis. For another, research study cohort can suffer from selection and are not always fully representative. If large datasets are accessible, Danielle emphasizes, then another challenge present itself: it tough to get consistent datasets due to the different structure of electronic health record (HER) in different countries. EMIF provided an opportunity to overcome these problem by making datasets visible, , and . Through Use Case 12, the Oxford team is now examining the relationship between disease of inflammation and the drug used to treat inflammatory disorder in multiple datasets. Through this work, theyre revealing stronger evidence of the relationship between dementia and inflammatory exposures. The team ground-breaking research set an example for others. Other researcher may be excited to learn that the question like those posed within Use Case 12 can be analyzed and answered efficiently by working with EMIF. From Start to Finish 3B To start Use Case 12, the team needed a good question that could potentially be answered using EHR data. With a hypothesis relating to inflammation and dementia, their protocol underwent ethical and peer review by expert in the field. The next step wa to contact the data custodian responsible for some of the datasets in the ; those who were able to participate joined Use Case 12. The team then asked the data custodian to extract the variable they needed from anonymized patient level record from their database and place them on a secure remote research environment. Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, scientific coordinator for the SIDIAP database, wa enthusiastic about contributing the SIDIAP database for Use Case 12, stating that the inclusion of the SIDIAP dataset into Use Case 12 offer a great opportunity to utilize the wealth of information from this database to help understand such an important topic. After quality control check for each of the datasets, local database expert started their work. For each dataset, they ran a software tool which aggregated the file for each dataset, removed any outliers, and selected the sample population based on the criterion specified in the original protocol. Thanks to a seamless collaboration with the EMIF-Platform team, the data for each dataset at this stage wa then ready for statistical analysis. The Workflow of Use Case 12 Where Are We Now? 3C Use Case 12 is on the cusp of the most exciting phase: data analysis! Nearly all the datasets have been extracted and are almost ready to be analyzed. The team built a clever step into their process; they are analyzing one dataset first, so they can run preliminary check and help troubleshoot the analysis of the rest of the datasets. Alejo confirms that participating in Use Case 12 ha been an excellent learning experience for our team when it come to the opportunity and challenge of analysis across multiple real-world datasets. We have been fortunate to have good help and expertise to guide u and move the work forward successfully, Danielle reports. Later in 2017, look for a publication of the finding from all of the datasets in Use Case 12. The team belief the result could lead to meaningful advancement in the treatment of Alzheimers disease and dementia. Take Action 3D The are a perfect example of successful collaboration and data sharing between and among researcher and data custodians. If you have an idea that you think could be answered using EHR data, then the progress of Use Case 12 should give you confidence that a robust analysis is possible. If you would like to learn more and get involved in the continuing progress of Use Case 12, contact or to collaborate or network. They welcome ideas, help, and expertise from anyone within EMIF who is interested in being involved with dementia research. Danielle, speaking on behalf of the Use Case 12 team, says: We want to collaborate with you and share our knowledge to make even greater progress toward our ultimate goal: the development of new therapy and treatment for dementia. For further reading about determining the molecular pathway underlying the protective effect of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for Alzheimers Disease, please see Alejo and Simons October 2016 . JUNE 2017 04 Precompetitive Research by a Multi-Disciplinary Team: The Investigation of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease a Recorded in Primary Care Databases A cross-company team discovered heterogeneity in the prevalence of recorded non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in European databases. How can a diverse team come together to tackle research question about the rising epidemic of metabolic disorders? Theproject make this possible. We are the Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Electronic Health Record (NAFLD-EHR) team, a subset of EMIF-Metabolic. Our team is composed of member from the pharmaceutical industry and academia, with background ranging from epidemiology and genetics to medicine and statistics; some of our member have expertise in cardiovascular disease and hepatology, and others have deep knowledge of healthcare databases. We are scattered around the globe, mainly located in Europe, and would not have had a chance to come together without the infrastructure of EMIF within the. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) enables collaboration between partner from the pharmaceutical industry and academia. EMIF collaborator conduct precompetitive research in multiple European database in a unified environment. EMIF enables the pharmaceutical industry to have unprecedented access to routinely recorded European healthcare data while respecting appropriate security and ethic provisions. A cross-company team discovered heterogeneity in the prevalence of recorded non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in European databases, a well a a low detection rate in primary care. CONTRIBUTORS MYRIAM ALEXANDERClinical data scientist and analyst at GlaxoSmithKline NAVEED SATTARProfessor of Metabolic Medicine at the University of Glasgow DAWN Waterworth Genetics Director at GlaxoSmithKline KATRINA loomisHead of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disease Human Genetics at Pfizer WILLIAM alazawiSenior lecturer and Consultant in Hepatology at the Blizard Institute, Barts and The London School of Medicine JOLYON fairburn-beechData analyst at GlaxoSmithKline Our Motivating Questions 4A Prior to collaborating, each of u wa motivated to answer key question about the epidemiology of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), such as: What is the prevalence and incidence of the disease in primary care data? Is NAFLD associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease after accounting for risk factor that may potentially confound this association? What excess risk do NAFLD patient experience when it come to developing liver complications, including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma? These question remained difficult to answer without access to a large sample of patient with extensive medical data. Fortunately, we had the opportunity to work within EMIF. Unprecedented Access 4B Via EMIF, we have access to unprecedented large-scale database collected routinely by primary care system of four European countries: The UK: The Netherlands: The Catalonia region of Spain: Italy: We identified suitable database using the EHR community, then used the support of EMIF to contact data custodian project partners. Attrition and demographic characteristic of patient with NAFLD in four European databases. Harmonizing the Data 4C For Use Case 10, our team developed a protocol and submitted it to the ethical review body of each database; upon approval, a single finalized protocol wa circulated to all parties. The four database used different terminology system to code clinical diagnoses, so a process of data harmonization wa needed to enable the team to create comparable lists. The protocol wa then translated into a series of data management and statistical analysis steps, after which data wa locally extracted by each data custodian and centrally analyzed in a remote server. A New Level of Trust 4D Thanks to EMIF, the pharma company involved in the project have been able to accessfor the first timean anonymized subset of the raw data of these databases. From there, the company have been able to perform the analyses, plumbing the depth of the various databases. This ha enabled all party to experience a new level of trust in the efficient reuse of routine data for the benefit of bona fide research. First Results 4E The analysis by a data analyst at GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) is ongoing. A late-breaking abstract wa presented at the on incidence and prevalence of NAFLD. Data were available for 17.4 million adult with more than 1 year of follow-up from registration. Over 135,000 individual had a diagnosis of NAFLD or non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), amounting to a pooled prevalence of 1.7% a of January 2014. Although these are relatively low compared to prevalence estimate in the literature of 20 30% of NAFLD in the general population, patient characteristic were in line with the literature. Incidence of recorded NAFLD (per 1,000 person-years) in 20042014 in the four countries, and pooled across countries. Point-Prevalence of recorded NAFLD (per 100 persons) in 20042014 in the four countries, and pooled across countries. Next Steps 4F This sample of NAFLD patient represents the largest NAFLD cohort ever assembled. It will enable further research on NAFLD, which is of interest to the pharmaceutical industry and the field of medicine. Our team is especially excited about potential research that may answer the motivating question we mentioned above. We want to know if NAFLD is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease after accounting for risk factor that may potentially confound this association, and we also want to know what excess risk NAFLD patient experience when it come to developing liver complications. Progression of NAFLD to NASH and beyond (source: Decision Resources). If youre in the field of metabolics and want to learn more about this study and it findings, contact . JUNE 2017 05 A Milestone Meeting: EMIF-Platforms 9th Consortium Meeting EMIF-Platform colleague gathered in Barcelona May 2223, 2017, for the 9th Consortium Meeting of the EMIF-Platform. In January 2013, the(IMI), the world largest public-private partnership in life sciences, began funding a landmark initiative. The(EMIF) wa launched a a ground breaking five-year project to develop technical and governance solution that improve the access and use of health data. 2017 mark EMIFs fifth and final year of funding through IMI. Where do we go from here and what have we accomplished so far? KEY POINTS The exciting 9th Consortium Meeting for the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) Platform took placein Barcelona, May 2223, 2017. Important milestone were discussed, including the technology platform, data harmonization, sustainability, research use cases, expedited research efficiency, and publication strategy. EMIF is making significant contribution to the field of real world data for health research, but more work remains to be done in the final year of this Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) project. CONTRIBUTORS NIGEL HUGHESEFPIA Coordinator EMIF-PLAT, Janssen Pharma R&D Over the past four years, we at EMIF have made considerable progress. We have developed an integrated platform to facilitate access to diverse medical and research data source across Europe. That sustainable framework now support the identification, assessment, and use or reuse of health data for medical research. To guide the development of that information framework, IMI originally selected two therapeutic area that are critically important at this juncture in history: Alzheimers disease (EMIF-AD) and metabolic disease (EMIF-Metabolic). These pressing research topic provided the EMIF-Platform with clear opportunity to support researcher with technological tool and governance processes. Thanks to the EMIF-Platform team, the researcher in EMIF-AD and EMIF-Metabolic are now working to address some of the world biggest health challenges. A Meeting of the Minds 5A Since EMIF-AD and EMIF-Metabolic leverage the framework created by the EMIF-Platform, one could say that the EMIF-Platform is the bedrock of EMIF. Thats why approximately 50 EMIF colleague met in Barcelona for the 9th Consortium Meeting of the . On May 22 and 23, 2017, the EMIF-Platform team shared milestones, recognized progress, and discussed the work on the horizon for the rest of the year. Six major theme emerged. Theme 1: Technology Platform 5B For the first time in the four-year history of EMIF, an integrated platform wa presented in outline form (see figure 1). While we will be evaluating this integrated platform for the rest of the year, it visualization is a major achievement for EMIF. This integrated platform allows researcher to access the , specify parameter for the data that fit their research questions, and analyze that data in a secure private remote research environment (PRRE). This technological development mean that researcher will be able to analyze large datasets while still respecting data privacy. Figure 1: Integrated EMIF Platform Theme 2: Data Harmonization 5C The EMIF-Platform ha helped the European continent advance towards data harmonization. We continue to map population data source to the (CDM). The EMIF-Platform team is working hard to make sure that our data custodian colleague are comfortable with the mapping conversion process. The EMIF-Platform team is also offering support when data custodian use the (OHDSI) for mapping data to the CDM. Simultaneously, were making progress assembling cohort data for EMIF-AD. variable that translate data from local to global vocabulariesallow u to add more AD cohort to the EMIF Catalogue AD community. The knowledge object team similarly support data owner and researcher to add and access relevant cohort data. Theme 3: Sustainability 5D EMIFs goal is to create a sustainable technology and governance framework for the identification, assessment, and use or reuse of health data for medical research in Europe. Weve spent the past four year developing the technology and governance framework. Now, were increasing our focus on sustainability. While weve made progress toward developing potential sustainability model for the population and cohort tracks, much more work is needed before the end of this year. We need to have a clear plan to implement during EMIFs proposed extension in the first half of 2018.. Theme 4: Research Use Cases 5E During the 9th EMIF-Platform Consortium Meeting, colleague shared the progress of many use case (see figure 2), which will come to fruition later this year. Invaluable insight from these use case will help EMIF better understand the research process, a well a potential challenge researcher and data custodian face. Stay tuned a use caseslike and are documented and shared. Figure 2: EMIF-Platform Research Use Cases currently running Theme 5: Expediting Research Efficiency 5F Deeper insight into the research processespecially when it come to bottleneck and potential solutionswill enable EMIF to manage the research more efficiently. Insights from current use case and proposed study will allow u to pressure test operational feasibility, helping u evaluate the EMIF-Platform architecture from a scientific and research perspective. Theme 6: Publication Strategy 5G The EMIF-Platform consortium also focused on prioritizing publication for the remainder of the project. Within the remainder of the IMI program, we plan to promote external publication about EMIFs technological, methodological, and scientific activities. We need to ensure the research community at large becomes familiar with EMIF and our developments, so we can invite interested party to . Progress and Future Work 5H While discussion at the 9th EMIF-Platform consortium revealed that we have work to do in the limited time that remains, we also recognize that EMIF ha made significant contribution to the field of real world data for health research. Our work over the past four year ha proven how critical it is to have a sustainable, integrated platform for diverse data source collaborations, based on a harmonized approach to a federated network model. All partner and collaborator can be rightfully proud of our achievements. Now we can focus our energy on all that need to be done in the rest of 2017. We must create an operational model to sustain European medical research via real world data in 2018 and beyond. If you would like to support the future of EMIF, please contact . All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 08-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF NEWSLETTER (NOVEMBER 2017) November2017 Use the button below to jump to each article in this issue. To Subscribe to the Newsletter, please complete the . NOVEMBER 2017 01 Improving Access to Human Health Data: EMIFs Commitment to Collaboration EMIF ha made great progress in several area between 2013 and 2017. When the (EMIF) wa launched by the (IMI) in January 2013, we had high hope for this five-year project. We wanted to increase access to human health data, improving life science research and bringing better and safer medicine to patients. Now that the IMI-funded phase of the EMIF project is drawing to a close in June 2018, wed like to take the opportunity to reflect on our journey. KEY POINTS The Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) funded phase of the EMIF project will come to a close at the end of June 2018. In the past five years, EMIF ha facilitated collaboration to make major breakthrough in tool development, cohort development, and biomarker discovery. EMIF team member are wrapping up existing project and also working to create a sustainable environment where collaboration will continue to flourish. CONTRIBUTORS NIGEL HUGHESEFPIA Coordinator EMIF-PLAT Janssen Pharma R&D Collaboration Is Key 1A Our goal wa monumental, and we knew that we could only make progress by collaborating. Over the past five year (20132017), EMIF ha brought together academic centre of excellence, subject matter experts, industry giants, and a patient organization. We have combined 57 partner across 14 European country with 56 million worth of resources, focusing on three major projects. Collaboration on a grand scale ha made EMIFs achievement possible. Major Projects and Achievements 1B To progress toward EMIFs goal, we developed a framework () for evaluating, enhancing, and providing access to human health data across Europe. To help guide the development of the EMIF-Platform, we chose two pressing area of therapeutic research: the onset of Alzheimers disease () and the metabolic complication of obesity (). Our achievement over the past five year have been even greater than we initially hoped. At a hosted by the (i~HD) and EMIF, Professor Dipak Kalra, President of i~HD, introduced EMIF a follows: If you wanted an example of the best in big data for medicine, EMIF would be it. All three of our project area have made major breakthrough in tool development, cohort development, and biomarker discovery. We have shared these discovery around the world, including over 117 scientific publication published, over 189 public presentation orated on EMIF, and over 75 poster presented at conference (2013 August 2017). Speaking of collaboration and conferences: we are pleased to be working with Erasmus Medical Centre on the development of the (OHDSI) European Union (EU) Chapter. The first annual is scheduled for , at the Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Collaborations with organization such a OHDSI ensure that EMIFs mission will continue even a the IMI-funded phase of the EMIF project is concluded. Looking to the Future 1C While this phase of our project is wrapping up, this doe not mean that we can stop striving for increased access to human health data. In fact, we find that this need is growing all the time. There are countless potential application for real world data in drug development, from discovery through development and into launch and post-launch. There will always be a need for improving life science research and bringing better and safer medicine to patients. Potential application for real world data in drug development. As we at EMIF wrap up existing projects, we are also working to create a sustainable environment where collaboration will continue to flourish. The 10th and final on December 45, 2017, in Barcelona will focus on celebrating our achievement and ensuring sustainability. We are proud of the work that EMIF ha accomplished to date, and we cannot wait to see where it lead in the future. Contact for further information or about continuing to collaborate in the future. NOVEMBER 2017 02 Realizing the Value from Health Data: 2017 Joint Meeting Hosted by i~HD and EMIF in Madrid On September 21 and 22, 2017, i~HD and EMIF hosted a joint meeting at the Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, in Madrid, Spain. On September 21 and 22, 2017, the (i~HD) and the (EMIF) hosted the joint meeting Realizing the Value from Health Data Improving Care and Research. Well over 200 delegate attended the meeting, which took place at the Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, in Madrid, Spain. KEY POINTS Over 200 delegate attended the September joint meeting hosted by the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) and the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) in Madrid, Spain. This meeting focused on the value of reusing clinical data for improving health care and clinical research. Multiple presenter and panellist highlighted the important role of trust when reusing health data. CONTRIBUTORS JELLE PRAET, PhD Project Manager at Janssen Pharmaceutica Reusing Clinical Data 2A The first day of the meeting wa hosted by i~HD. During the kick-off session, representative from the Spanish and Estonian health ministry elaborated on the importance of reusing clinical data for improving health care and clinical research. In addition, they emphasized the need for a dialogue with patients. They explained how essential it is to tell patient about the result achieved by allowing the reuse of their data. Representatives from the Spanish and Estonian health ministry elaborate on the importance of reusing clinical data for improving health care and clinical research. Its All About Trust 2B During the remainder of the morning, the goal and challenge of a transition toward value-based and outcomes-based health care were discussed. Mary Baker, chairperson of the session, stated, We should stop talking about the cost of health care and start talking about the investment of health in the long run. The second half of the day examined the empowerment of patients. An integral aspect of patient empowerment is the development of solution that lead to a healthy data ecosystem. This ecosystem must have quality data and also place a high priority on trust. This mutual trust in the bona fide reuse of data is of utmost importance to advance the field. As a patient representative put it: In the end, it all about trust. EMIF Takes the Stage 2C EMIF-AD Project Achievements For the second day of the meeting, the EMIF project took the stage. Professor Dipak Kalra, President of i~HD, introduced EMIF a follows: If you wanted an example of the best in big data for medicine, EMIF would be it. The day started with an overview of EMIFs achievement in building and using the EMIF platform, and also in applying these tool to the field of Alzheimers and obesity. Over the past five years, EMIF ha been developing a common technology and governance framework. In addition, EMIF ha been creating an online platform for the identification, assessment, access, and reuse of health data across academia, industry, payers, and governments. EMIF ha had two disease focus to evaluate this framework:(EMIF-AD) and(EMIF-MET). Researchers have been working to apply EMIFs tool and technology to identify novel biomarkers in Alzheimers and metabolic diseases. Both EMIF-AD and EMIF-MET have made significant achievements. EMIF-MET Project Achievements For the Greater Benefit of Patients 2D Throughout the day, presenter spoke about many different aspect of the reuse of health data, discussing each with the audience. Among the aspect discussed were technical ones, such a the harmonization of electronic health record data to the (via the collaboration with , or OHDSI). Presenters also spoke about the harmonization of the AD cohort data to the Switchbox common data model which wa developed within EMIF specifically for this purpose. Additionally, presenter raised many non-technical aspect with regard to governance, the expansion of data source and collaborations, and the sustainability and legacy of EMIF elements. Bart Vannieuwenhuyse (EMIF Coordinator; Senior Director, Janssen Pharmaceutica) speaks with an attendee during the second day of the joint meeting. The day ended with a panel discussion. Panel member were asked what they hoped would be the legacy of EMIF. Michel van Speybroeck of Janssen Data Sciences replied, The ultimate objective for me is that the work we put in result in improved health outcome for everyone. I hope that we succeeded in laying the foundation for a data ecosystem in which health data can be reused in good trust and for the greater benefit of patients. Nigel Hughes, EMIF-Platform Co-Coordinator and Janssen Pharma R&D, added a few final thought to Michels, saying, 80% of bioinformatics is about humans, not the data itself. Professor Sir Simon Lovestone, EMIF Co-Coordinator and professor of translational neuroscience, Oxford, agreed: If we can get patient and all partner involved to trust each other, and we couple this to our endless ambition, we can really make a difference in patient lives. NOVEMBER 2017 03 Bridging Europe: First Annual European OHDSI Symposium Scheduled for March 2018 The First Annual European OHDSI Symposium will take place in Rotterdam in March 2018. The (EMIF) project main objective is to develop a sustainable platform that enables data discovery and unprecedented use of data source of a wide variety of types, including Electronic Health Records (EHR) in both primary and hospital care. This is a challenging task because each data source ha it own underlying data model, which make the use of common tool more difficult and the extraction process le transparent. Differences in clinical terminology system further complicate study across European data sources. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) ha adopted the Observational Medical Outcome Partnership Common Data Model (OMOP-CDM), developed by the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) Initiative, to standardize European data source to a common structure and language. EMIF is working with Erasmus Medical Centre to develop the European OHDSI Chapter. The first annual will be on March 2324, 2018, at Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. CONTRIBUTORS PETER RIJNBEEK Assistant Professor, Department of Medical Informatics at Erasmus University Medical Centre Data Standardization to the Rescue 3A How did EMIF overcome this challenge? By embracing the (OHDSI, pronounced Odyssey) model of translating the data into a common structure and language. You might recognize this conceptits known a data standardization. We at EMIF have been mapping European data source to the common data model developed by OHDSI. We are also extending OHDSI tool to enable the large-scale analytics that are key to EMIFs core objectives. The Origins of OHDSI 3B , a public-private partnership originally established in the United States. The OMOP project developed the initial version of the (OMOP-CDM), which can accommodate health data from diverse source in a consistent and standardized way. OHDSIs mission is to improve health, by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. A key objective is to stimulate transparent and reproducible research for which the OMOP-CDM is a prerequisite. Today, OHDSI is an international collaborative comprised of academics, industry scientists, healthcare providers, and regulator who have come together to create and apply open-source data analytic solution to a large network of health databases. Its a non-funded entity, supported by the generosity and passion of individual member a well a in-kind contribution from many organizations. OHDSI is powered by a spirit of global collaboration. A New Chapter for OHDSI 3C We at EMIF are pleased to be working with Erasmus Medical Centre on the development of the European OHDSI Chapter. The first annual is scheduled for March 2324, 2018, at Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam will host the first annual European OHDSI Symposium (source: ). This symposium will be called Bridging Europe. It aim to establish a European community that actively contributes to the global OHDSI mission. At the symposium, participant will share result and idea about the use of the OMOP-CDM, tool development, and future research studies. The meeting will feature a collaborator showcase involving a poster session to highlight OHDSIs research achievement and interactive demonstration of OHDSIs open-source software tools. Standardizing our European health data will enable distributed research study at an unprecedented scale, say Dr Peter Rijnbeek, Assistant Professor in the Department of Medical Informatics at Erasmus University Medical Centre. The annual OHDSI symposium is the perfect instrument to stimulate and support this transition. Join this exciting journey! Register Now 3D Have you been an active participant in EMIFs work utilizing the OMOP-CDM? Or are you new to OHDSI and interested in learning more about this exciting initiative? Whatever your level of experience, you are welcome. Registration is limited to 250 participants, so please a soon a possible to reserve your spot. NOVEMBER 2017 04 Celebrating Achievements and Ensuring Sustainability: The 10th and Final EMIF-Platform Consortium Meeting The EMIF-Platform infrastructure for Electronic Health Records (EHRs). Over the past five year of the (EMIF) project, we at the (EMIF-PLAT) have worked closely with many colleagues, including those at University of Aveiro in Portugal. Together, we have developed an integrated platform to facilitate access to diverse medical and research data source across Europe. That sustainable framework now support the identification, assessment, and use or reuse of health data for medical research. Two track in the EMIF architecture support two data types: Electronic Health Records, which include routine healthcare data from general practice and hospitals; and cohort datasets, which include data for specific research communities. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) Platform community will gather for a final consortium meeting on December 45, 2017. The meeting will focus on how learning from Use Cases might be taken into consideration for the final Platform. Another topic at the meeting will be sustainability, including publication strategy, business planning, and legacy. EMIF need to work inclusively to progress the sustainable element that will continue beyond the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI)funded phase of the project. CONTRIBUTORS NIGEL HUGHESEFPIA Coordinator EMIF-PLAT Janssen Pharma R&D Looking Forward 4A At the in Barcelona in May 2017, many important milestone were discussed, including the technology platform, data harmonization, sustainability, research use cases, expedited research efficiency, and publication strategy. The EMIF-PLAT community will gather for a final consortium meeting on December 45, 2017. At this 10th and final consortium meeting, member will evaluate progress to date a well a discus final activity up until the end of the project in Jun 2018. Our 10th meeting will likely reflect on one of our most well-known achievements: the going public in January of 2017. We now have over 400 user registered in the EHR community of the Catalogue. Since January of 2017, we have continued to work on data harmonization with the electronic health record data custodian via the . This ha involved further work evaluating data fidelity. The EMIF Catalogue homepage. EMIFs collaboration with OHDSI ha made much of our data harmonization work possible. We are pleased to be working with Erasmus Medical Centre on the development of the OHDSI European Union (EU) Chapter. The first annual is scheduled for March 2324, 2018, at Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Onboarding New Cohorts 4B At our 10th meeting, we will also evaluate our work with additional (EMIF-AD) cohorts. Using the Switchbox common data model, we have onboarded these cohort into the EMIF-Platform. While onboarding new cohorts, we make sure that they populate the participant and the variable selection tools. These tool allow researcher to identify subsamples of individual and subset of variable that fit the need of their research questions. All of this work support the establishment of the EMIF-AD platform sustainable infrastructure, which is crucial for AD research in Europe. Expedited Research Efficiency 4C Our consortium meeting will explore how to manage research more efficiently. We are currently considering the potential use of a commercial-like study to evaluate the whole EMIF-Platformfrom Catalogue to private remote research environmentprior to the end of the EMIF project. In order to expedite research efficiency, we have also identified bottleneck in the research process that need to be addressed, a well a the technology supporting research via the EMIF-Platform. Prioritizing Publications 4D Since the meeting in May, the EMIF-PLAT community ha been working on further publication from the project. We look forward to the fact that the 10th consortium meeting will include discussion of member submission to relevant journals. An excerpt from the extensive . Working Inclusively 4E There is considerable work to do prior to the official end of the EMIF project at the five-year mark. We need to work inclusively to progress the sustainable element that will continue beyond the IMI-funded phase. We are excited about the upcoming consortium meeting where we will celebrate work achieved, shepherd the project to a successful conclusion, and solidify plan to sustain the EMIF-Platform in the future. All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 08-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF NEWSLETTER (MAY 2018) May 2018 Use the button below to jump to each article in this issue. To Subscribe to the Newsletter, please complete the . MAY 2018 01 Shining Yet More Light: The Impact of the European Medical Information Framework Project Theres an old joke that go something like this: A policeman came across a man on his hand and knee under a street light late at night. What are you doing, sir?, said the policeman. The man replied, I lost my car key and I have been looking for them, and he continued to search. The policeman replied, Ill give you a hand. Whereabouts do you think you dropped them? In response, the man said, Over in that alley over there, I think. The policeman rubbed his jaw and said, Well, why are you searching over here then?. To which the man retorted, Well, this is where the light is. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) wa formed to liberate insight and evidence from real world data in Europe. Collectively, we have brought together a remarkably diverse research and development effort within EMIF to address some of the key challenge for modern healthcare. EMIF ha done much to grow the community, platforms, infrastructures, and case for enabling the reuse of data in Europe. CONTRIBUTORS PROF SIR SIMON LOVESTONEProfessor of Translational Neuroscience, Oxford University, Overall joint program lead for EMIF BART VANNIEUWENHUYSESenior Director, Janssen Clinical Innovation Patient Data for Research (JCI-PDR), Coordinator of the overall EMIF project Bringing Light Where It is Needed The space where we need to look for the answer to some of the most pressing question in medicine today is in the alley, not under the lamppost. The (EMIF) wa formed to bring light where it is needed; we wanted to shed light on potential key to liberating insight and evidence from real world data in Europe. There is a transformation taking place, with healthcare becoming a truly data-driven sector, from clinical care through to R&D. Compared to many other industry in society, healthcare ha been a latecomer to the digital realm. However, over the last five to six year since EMIF wa first imagined, healthcare is truly moving into the digital realm, and our project ha contributed to that change. In this newsletterthe last of this IMI projectwe will be bringing together view from around the EMIF project on what we have achieved, what wa a challenge, what lesson we learned, and where we could be going in the near future. We Can Only Achieve Through Collaboration EMIF ha been a complex project with it three components: the socio-technical and governance framework (), and the two disease projects, in Alzheimers disease () and in the metabolic consequence of obesity (), both working on early biomarker development. Collectively, we have brought together a remarkably diverse research and development effort within EMIF to address some of the key challenge for modern healthcare. Moreover, we have recognised that we can only achieve through collaboration, working together from when clinical data is generated to when it can potentially be analysed with the latest open-source tools. Our final meeting of the consortium and our public event spoke to the remarkable achievement of EMIF and all those who were involved in it, a well a the challenge and lesson learned. This is covered much further within the newsletter. We have no doubt that working at scalewith increasingly large cohort and in collaboration with data custodian internationally and eventually globallyis going to be the standard for real world observational health research. This will especially be the case when cohort are linked to other complementary datasets, such a the molecular and imaging data used in part of EMIF. We have learnt much about how to develop and nurture a federated data network, and about the value and indeed challenge of linking such observational data to basic science in the two disease areas. Importantly, we have been learning together. This ha transformed not just our knowledge but led to productive and lasting scientific collaborations. Thank You More on the result of EMIF is contained in this newsletter, but we also would want to take the opportunity to thank all those involved in and collaborating with EMIF. The project ha set the stage for new project that are impending, such a the IMI2 European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN), which we hope will start later this year. Meanwhile, sustainable element of EMIF will be accessible beyond the IMI phase for the research community. EMIF is already contributing to the infrastructure of other projectsproviding the and contributing to the harmonisation within for example. Setting New Precedents EMIF ha been an outstanding success, a evidenced by one of the highest citation impact of any IMI project, and it scientific output in the three domain will continue to reverberate for many years. Insights generated into, for instance, the variable progression of Alzheimers disease, the liver-related consequence of obesity, and the utilisation of common data model in harmonising diverse European data, have set new precedents. EMIF ha done much to grow the community, platforms, infrastructures, and case for enabling the reuse of data in Europe. We look forward to this legacy being carried forward, not least through other IMI programme and other initiative a well a the EMIF continuation plans. All of you who have done so much to make EMIF the success that it is should be a proud a we are of the work we have done. We hope you enjoy reading some of the work of EMIF in this newsletter and many scientific paper to come, shining yet more light on where the key to medical and societal challenge may be found. MAY 2018 02 Achievements, Lessons Learned, and Opportunities: Reflecting on the Past Five Years of EMIF As the five-year (EMIF) project draw to a close, the EMIF topic lead have reflected on achievements, lesson learned, and future opportunities. The topic lead would like to share their thought with you in hope of increasing the sustainability of EMIFs legacy. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) project ha made major contribution towards promoting the reuse of healthcare data by developing tool for this purpose and by applying these tool in the field of Alzheimers disease and the metabolic complication of obesity. EMIFs mission to improve access and re-use of healthcare data ha been accomplished to a large extent, but sustainability will be crucial in order to leverage the full potential of EMIF. EMIF ha resulted in new collaboration that project lead hope will continue into the future. CONTRIBUTORS NIGEL HUGHESEFPIA Coordinator of EMIF-PLAT, Janssen Pharma R&D ULF SMITHProfessor, University of Gothenburg, Public lead of the Metabolic topic JOHANNES STREFFERVP and Head of Early Clinical Neurology, UCB, EFPIA lead of the AD topic PIETER JELLE VISSERAssociate Professor, Maastricht University, VU University Medical Center, Public lead of the AD topic DAWN WATERWORTHDirector of Genetics, Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Dermatology, GSK, EFPIA lead of the Metabolic topic Achievements Made Possible by EMIF Nigel Hughes, the (EFPIA) Coordinator of , say that EMIF created a community of disparate and diverse stakeholder with common goal around real-world, observational research. These stakeholder then fostered the scientific and technical achievement of the project. One of the major achievement of the project is a common information framework, the , to link up and facilitate access to diverse medical and research data sources. Over the past five years, EMIF ha created a working platform and mapped multiple database to the . representing the process of data standardization using the OMOP Common Data Model. According to Johannes Streffer, the EFPIA lead of , EMIF foster and strengthens relationship between and among partner and data providers, which connects research center more effectively. EMIF-AD ha also developed tool such a the (with the cohort and patient selection tools), tranSMART, and Switchbox. Pieter Jelle Visser, public lead of EMIF-AD, note that these tool are only possible through EMIF because of the combination of different type of expertise. These tool and pooled datasets have enabled EMIF-AD to perform large meta-analyses for a fraction of the cost and in a fraction of time that it would have taken otherwise. The EMIF-AD Catalogue. The EFPIA lead of , Dawn Waterworth, say that without EMIF, we would not have been able to access electronic medical record (EMR) database in Europe to run parallel analysis in four databases. We also were able to bring together a multi-disciplinary team that had the appropriate skill and knowledge to take advantage of this data, which would have been very difficult otherwise. According to Ulf Smith, public lead of EMIF-Metabolic, having scientist with complementary expertise work with a carefully phenotyped cohort ha been crucial in validating the importance of novel biomarkers. Mission Accomplished EMIF ha achieved it mission of developing common technical and governance solution and facilitating access and use of healthcare data. EMIF is helping to liberate insight within Alzheimers disease, metabolic disease and other co-morbidities, from within the project through a series of use cases, and externally via the Catalogue, say Nigel. The EMIF-AD Catalogue ha over 400 registered users, clearly indicating that it meet a strong need. There remain challenges, especially around governance and provenance of local data and external engagement with stakeholders. All of the topic lead agree that sustainability is essential to continuing EMIFs mission and to leverage the full potential of EMIF. Lessons Learned The topic lead agree that the time spent building community within the three area of EMIF (Platform, AD, and Metabolic) wa very valuable. In EMIF-AD, the topic lead are happy with how the team achieved deliverable clearly and transparently, created cohort and infrastructures, and re-used existing data. The EMIF-Metabolic topic lead say that their project have led to some great collaborations, and they are pleased with the access to complementary expertise and large cohort with disease outcome data. For future similar projects, the topic lead have some aspirations. One of the key to building a federated data network for real world, observational research in Europe is gaining an understanding of data source local governance and provenance requirements. Future project should also focus more on stakeholders, communicating the opportunity and possible reward to partner organization and data providers. This would allow better utilization and access of both data and infrastructure. For a long-term project like EMIF, topic lead would advise EFPIA partner to hire people specifically to work on the project, to make sure that they have time available for it. Beyond EMIF All the topic lead agree that the EMIF project resulted in new high-level collaboration that they hope will continue beyond the five-year span of the project. In EMIF-Platform, there wa collaboration with the around the OMOP common data model. Within EMIF-AD, there wa linkage between, for example, (IMI EPAD), (DPUK), et al, a well a the wider Alzheimers research community. In EMIF-Metabolic, there were collaboration with a number of EFPIA and academic participant that will continue into the future. Johannes says, Collaborations within existing partnership have been strengthened and will be strong driver of further research initiatives. New partnership have been built and will hopefully further develop. Nigel suggests that such development are already taking place: I believe that EMIF cemented relationship between academia, industry/EFPIA partners, and data source in a pre-competitive state. I would suggest that this paved the way for the forthcoming European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) IMI2 project. It will be exciting to see the legacy of EMIF in action in the form of project such a EHDEN. MAY 2018 03 Bridging Europe: The First Annual OHDSI Symposium Participants at the March 2018 OHDSI Symposium in Rotterdam, The Netherlands, wearing their jacket with the OHDSI Europe logo. On March 23 and 24, 2018, the European (OHDSI) chapter hosted it first annual OHDSI symposium with the theme Bridging Europe. Well over 200 people attended the meeting (140 of them attending an OHDSI event for the first time), representing 24 different countries. Many of the attendee and several speaker are directly involved in the (EMIF). The meeting took place at the Erasmus Medical Center, in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Participants successfully contributed to expanding an already vibrant European Union (EU) OHDSI community. KEY POINTS Over 200 participant attended the first annual European Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) symposium, hosted in Rotterdam, The Netherlands, by the EU OHDSI chapter. During the first day of the symposium, presenter spoke about the adoption of the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) common data model (CDM), the need for an EU OHDSI initiative, the importance of OHDSI tools, and more. During the second day of the symposium, two workshop gave participant hands-on experience with the OMOP CDM and OHDSI tools. CONTRIBUTORS JELLE PRAET,PhDLife Science consultant at CMAST bvba, subcontractor at Janssen Pharmaceutica PETER RIJNBEEK, PhDAssistant Professor at Erasmus University Medical Center Importance of the OMOP CDM George Hripcsak (Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor and Chair, Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University Medical Center; Director, Medical Information Services, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital) wa the first speaker of the day. He presented about the worldwide journey of OHDSI and the adoption of the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) (CDM). Currently, over 400 million patient and 1.26 billion patient record have been mapped to the OMOP CDM. Among it user are large institute like the (FDA), the (eMERGE), the (NIH), and the (IMI). Peter Rijnbeek (Assistant Professor, Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC Rotterdam) elaborated on the need for an EU OHDSI initiative. There are many different database structure and coding system in Europe, and healthcare system differ considerably across EU countries. Harmonization to the of the OMOP CDM is critical to the generation of real world evidence in a fast and reproducible way. The current one study one script approach is not scalable and not transparent; moreover, it is expensive, slow, and prohibitive to non-expert use. The EU OHDSI initiative will stimulate the adoption of the OMOP CDM in Europe, providing a platform for European collaboration to further improve the CDM and vocabulary for the European setting. Patrick Ryan (Sr. Director and Head, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen R&D; Adjunct Assistant Professor of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University) gave the last talk of the first session. The last talk of the first session wa given by Patrick Ryan (Sr. Director and Head, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen R&D; Adjunct Assistant Professor of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University). We want our science to be reproducible by others, which is even harder than being able to repeat your own results, said Patrick. If we want our science to become reproducible, we need to ensure that every step along the research process is identical. This is exactly why the OMOP CDM and OHDSI tool are so important. They are the product of a community working together to define community standard and tools, share evidence, and define best practices. Adoption of the OMOP CDM After the coffee break, different case of the adoption of the OMOP CDM were shown. Nigel Hughes (Scientific director, JCI Patient Data for Research, Janssen, Belgium) presented the upcoming IMI European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) project, which ha set the goal of mapping 100 million health record across the EU to the OMOP CDM in the next five years. While this goal is ambitious, Nigel Hughes expressed confidence that they could reach it. EHDEN is not a blank canvas, but build on what ha already been developed in other project (like, for example, EMIF). Martin Sedlmayr (Professor, Institute for Medical Informatics and Biometry, TU Dresden, Germany) presented about the Medical Informatics for Research and Care in University Medicine (MIRACUM) consortium. Martin Sedlmayr (Professor, Institute for Medical Informatics and Biometry, TU Dresden, Germany) introduced the (MIRACUM) consortium. Recently launched and supported by the German government, the MIRACUM consortium currently represents a quarter of all German university hospitals. It aim to stimulate the reuse of data by adopting the OMOP CDM and the OHDSI tools. Ben Hughes (Senior Vice President Real-World & Analytics Solutions, IQVIA) discussed why IQVIA, formerly Quintiles IMS, is continuously investing in the OMOP CDM. IQVIA help many large-scale institution (such a FDA and the ) to answer both simple and complex question about drug safety, adverse-event reporting, and more. Following a trial where 12 database were harmonized to the OMOP CDM, IQVIA is convinced of the OMOPs huge potential to help with better research, but IQVIA also remains realistic about the associated cost and time requirements. Rae Woong Park (Professor, Ajou University School of Medicine, South Korea) presented the journey of how South Korea successfully adopted the OMOP CDM. There are currently many participating hospital in South Korea with a total of 55 million patients. Despite the effort of Professor Park, who had been promoting the Korean OHDSI initiative, it took more than 18 month before the first hospital expressed interest in joining the Korean OHDSI initiative. This change came about in May 2016, due to the Korean National Health Insurance system which started using the OMOP CDM. From this story, we can learn that we need to get EU payer and regulator on board in supporting the EU OHDSI initiative if we want to be successful. Epidemiological Presentations Daniel Prieto (Associate Professor and NIHR Clinician Scientist, Oxford University, UK) introduced the work of his group at Oxford, showing the audience how epidemiological work using patient record can help to study the risk and benefit of medical devices. Erica Voss (Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen R&D, US) gave an overview of the type of research done at Janssen epidemiology analytics. She explained how real-world data can be used to conduct clinical trial feasibility studies, where you design your trial and then use real world data to validate if your trial is feasible or need tweaking. She mentioned that adoption of the OMOP CDM ha required a substantial investment of time and money, but it ha a very strong return. The more you invest, the more you get out of it. Sir Simon Lovestone (Professor of Translational Neuroscience, Oxford University, UK) spoke about the (UK-CRIS) system, which hold data from over 2.5 million mental health patients. Most of the data from mental health patient is written down in long text, which pose a tremendous challenge when harmonizing data. Currently, UK-CRIS is implementing a consent for re-contact model where 74% of patient agreed to be contacted again, which will tremendously speed up clinical trials. OMOP CDM Tools in Action After lunch, there wa time for several demonstration of tool related to the OMOP CDM and 40 research posters. The demonstration included a patient-level prediction package in R, the research network platform, new features, the tool, and the . The latter wa presented by Jos Lus Oliveira (Associate Professor, University of Aveiro; Vice Director of Institute of Electronics and Informatics Engineering of Aveiro) who showed the audience the complete EMIF Catalogue pipeline from discovery, to assessment, all the way to the re-use of health data. Prof. Dr. Jos Lus Oliveira gave a real-time demonstration of the EMIF Catalogue, an online platform which integrates and enables the discovery and reuse of heterogeneous biomedical databases. Regulatory Considerations During a panel discussion, Jim Slattery (Senior Statistician, European Medicines Agency) mentioned that regulator use observational data more and more to guide decision making. Christian Reich (Vice President of Real World insights, IQVIA) stated that the lack of reproducible research on which to base decision is a problem no company, institution, or government can solve on their own, no matter how rich they are. When asked how the OHDSI community can make sure it is compliant with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Michel van Speybroeck (Director Data Sciences, Janssen, Belgium) replied that the exact interpretation of the GDPR is debatable, and that these new rule and regulation might be interpreted differently at different levels. However, a the OHDSI approach is to use a federated data network (versus centralized), it will be much easier to be compliant with the new GDPR. Peter Rijnbeek (Assistant Professor, Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC Rotterdam) closed the first day of the symposium with a hilarious show about the closure of the past OHDSI symposium in the US, including a singing section greatly appreciated by participants. Hands-on Experience with OHDSI Tools The second day of the conference hosted two workshops, allowing participant to get some hands-on experience with the OMOP CDM and OHDSI tools. By the end of the day, participant had a better understanding of the detail of the OMOP CDM structure and the Standardized Vocabularies used to harmonize data. The tool ecosystem of the OHDSI community wa also shown, with a strong focus on the ATLAS tool, a this allows browsing vocabularies, defining cohorts, estimating risk effects, making patient-level predictions, and more. More Information For more information about the OMOP CDM and the OHDSI community, and to stay up to date about the next edition of this symposium, please visit . MAY 2018 04 Achievements and Challenges of a Five Year IMI Project: The Final EMIF General Assembly Meeting and Public Symposium Over 110 people attended the EMIF public symposium on April 18 to discus and learn about the European health data ecosystem. On April 16 and 17, 2018, the (EMIF) project held it final general assembly meeting at Hotel Bloom, Brussels, Belgium (BE), where the project wa launched five year prior. In addition, a public symposium on Liberating Evidence from European Health Data wa hosted on April 18. KEY POINTS The European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) project held it final general assembly meeting and public symposium in Brussels, Belgium April 16 18, 2018. During the meeting, participant reflected on research in the area of Alzheimers disease and metabolic complication of obesity, a well a sharing poster and demonstrating tool created by EMIF. Discussions about legacy and sustainability led to insight that may be helpful in future IMI projects. CONTRIBUTORS JELLE PRAET,PhDLife Science consultant at CMAST bvba, subcontractor at Janssen Pharmaceutica The Journey Thus Far The general assembly meeting commenced with Bart Vannieuwenhuyse (Janssen, BE) and Prof Sir Simon Lovestone (University of Oxford, UK) reflecting on the successful journey thus far. EMIF wa first conceived in 2011. Since then, EMIF ha lived up to it ambition of providing and enabling access to an unprecedented volume of healthcare data, a well a accelerating research in the field of Alzheimers disease (AD) and the metabolic complication of obesity. Nigel Hughes (Janssen, BE) and Johan van der Lei (Erasmus MC, NL) reflected on the social and technical evolution of EMIF during it project lifetime. One of the major challenge of EMIF ha been the fact that we had to fly the plane while building it, said Nigel. Part of the success of EMIF stem from having three topic together in one overarching project, but this also introduced some challenges, such a defining a common goal across the three topic and between academic and (EFPIA) partners. A major legacy of EMIF will be the development of the EMIF platform and it associated tools, a well a the introduction of the (CDM) in Europe. AD and Metabolic Successes Johannes Streffer (UCB, BE) and Pieter-Jelle Visser (Maastricht University, NL) explained how ha focused heavily on the re-use and enrichment of AD cohort data. This in turn delivered new insight into the pathophysiology of AD and helped to identify potential new AD biomarkers. Exemplars of this focused effort are the AD cohort catalogue, the enriched EMIF Biomarker discovery cohort, and the establishment of two new cohort on the extreme phenotype of AD. When asked what they would do differently if they were to redo the project, Johannes and Pieter-Jelle replied that the political and legal dimension of working with real world data should not be overlooked, but instead be tackled a soon a possible in future projects. Ulf Smith (University of Gothenburg, Sweden) and Dawn Waterworth (GSK, US) stated that the project structure with three different topic ha also been critical to the success of . There wa a shared interest with EMIF-AD to study the link between dementia and insulin resistance, and this kind of research wa possible due to the collaboration with EMIF-Platform. Working together ha enabled u to identify mannose a a new marker for insulin resistance, and to answer critical question about the risk factor that link to the progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), cardiovascular disease (CVD), and heart failure. Dawn Waterworth (GSK, US) presented her journey a a geneticist working in the field of real world data. Poster Prizes and Tool Demonstrations The first day ended with a poster session. In addition to the 28 posters, there were also three real-time demonstration of the tool developed in EMIF. Myriam Alexander (formerly GSK, UK) took home the jury poster prize while the public poster prize wa awarded to Stephen Carter (University of Manchester, UK). Cohort Research The second day of the general assembly meeting started with a session about all the work undertaken that relates to using cohort-related data. Isabelle Bos (Maastricht University, NL) and Sarah Westwood (University of Oxford, UK) presented the outcome of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis and the proteomic analysis which were done in the context of the multimodal biomarker discovery study. Anouk den Braber (Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, NL) presented the result of the EMIF 90+ study and the PreclinAD study, two cohort focussing on the extreme phenotype of AD. Claudia Langenberg (University of Cambridge, UK) and Luca Lotta (University of Cambridge, UK) presented their work on using cohort data to advance type 2 diabetes biomarkers from mere association to a causal relationship. Naveed Sattar (University of Glasgow, UK) introduced the audience to the GlasVEGAs study, where the metabolic reaction of Europeans and South Asian men is compared after quickly gaining enforced weight. Michel van Speybroek (Janssen, BE) and Rudi Verbeeck (Janssen, BE) explained how they performed the harmonisation of AD cohort datasets to a minimal dataset, hosted on the tranSMART platform. An update wa also given on the AD cohort explorer and the associated AD Switchbox, which are being developed to make AD cohort data available to the wider research community. Upcoming White Paper After the break, there wa an interactive workshop, moderated by Caroline Sage (CMAST bvba, BE). The workshop asked participant to reflect on how they experienced EMIF and the lesson they had learned. The outcome of the workshop will be combined with the result of an earlier survey conducted within EMIF and then published a a white paper. During the interactive workshop, people were split into eight different groups, then asked to reflect on how they experienced EMIF and how the field will continue to evolve in the year to come. EHR Research After lunch, there wa a session outlining the use of electronic health record (EHR) data. Naveed Sattar (University of Glasgow, UK) presented the result of a study in which they investigated the risk of developing cardiovascular disease in NAFLD patients. William Alazawi (Queen Mary University of London, UK) showed u the gap in diagnosis and disease assessment of NAFLD between literature and EHR databases. Prof Sir Simon Lovestone (University of Oxford, UK) explained how his group ha been studying the link between dementia and inflammation, specifically the effect of the anti-inflammatory drug methotrexate. Rob Stewart (Kings College London, UK) showed u his work about using EHR data to study dementia prevalence and vascular risk factor for dementia. Jos Lus Oliveira (University of Aveiro, Portugal) guided u through the many different aspect of the (user profiles, database plugins such a Jerboa and ACHILLES, and the community plugins such a TASKA and ATLAS). Glen James (GSK, UK) told u about his experience of using the EMIF Catalogue to answer actual research questions. Peter Rijnbeek (Erasmus MC, NL) presented the Jerboa Reloaded tool which wa developed within EMIF. Thereafter, he switched gear and explained the work done on the OMOP CDM. In addition, he reported back on a very successful (OHDSI) meeting in Rotterdam, in March, a a kick-off to the EU OHDSI chapter. Peter Rijnbeek (Erasmus MC, NL) holding the microphone during a Q&A session on how other project besides EMIF are helping to share the European health data ecosystem. The Legacy Scenario During the last session of the day, Nigel Hughes presented the legacy scenario of EMIF, followed by a panel discussion on the sustainability of EMIF. Panelists included Bart Vannieuwenhuyse, Prof Sir Simon Lovestone, Pieter-Jelle Visser, Johannes Streffer, Johan van der Lei, Dawn Waterworth, and Katrina Loomis (Pfizer, US). As with many other (IMI) projects, moving towards a sustainable entity ha proven difficult. The general sentiment wa that the difficulty wa largely due to the many different stakeholder involved rather than a technological problem. Lastly, the upcoming IMI project European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) wa an often-recurring topic throughout the discussion; EHDEN can be considered the heir to EMIF, and thus a big part of the EMIF legacy. Well-Attended Public Symposium On Wednesday, April 18, over 110 participant attended the EMIF public symposium Liberating Evidence from European Health Data. The day started with an introduction to EMIF by Bart Vannieuwenhuyse and Prof Sir Simon Lovestone. Thereafter, the respective topic lead gave a high-level overview of the tool and technology which were developed in EMIF (Nigel Hughes), and the new disease insight that were gained in the field of AD (Johannes Streffer) and about the metabolic complication of obesity (Dawn Waterworth). Left: Bart Vannieuwenhuyse (Janssen, Belgium) gave the audience a warm welcome on April 18 and started the public symposium by giving a high-level introduction to the EMIF project. A Perfect Storm The next session focused on other project and how these are currently impacting the European health data ecosystem. Peter Rijnbeek discussed how the OMOP CDM will revolutionize the way healthcare data is being used in Europe, a it will allow the generation of evidence from observational data in a fast and reproducible manner. Peter remarked that we are in a perfect storm, and the upcoming IMI project EHDEN will help tremendously in the widespread adoption of the OMOP CDM throughout Europe. Next, Nemanja Vaci (University of Oxford, UK) presented how the IMI (ROADMAP) project try to develop efficient us of real world evidence for the benefit of AD patients. Adil Mardinoglu (Chalmers, Sweden) showed the audience an example of how large biological database can help to solve very fundamental research question to better understand disease pathologies. The last speaker of this session, Gerald Luscan (Pfizer, FR), gave a gave an overview of how the IMI (EPAD) project is building a platform to accelerate clinical trial and how participant are being recruited in the EPAD Register. Perspectives on Privacy After lunch, Valentina Strammiello (European Patient Forum, BE) gave a patient perspective about the re-use of healthcare data. Interestingly, while patient are genuinely concerned about data security and privacy issues, they do want bona fide researcher to be able to access their data. Patients want to be involved and to be in control of their own data. Thereafter, Nikolaus Forgo (University of Vienna, Austria) gave the audience a crash course on the upcoming general data protection regulation (GDPR), effective from May 25, 2018. Unfortunately, the GDPR will not be the hoped-for revolution to simplify the European legislation on data protection. The penalty might be higher when you are in breach with the GDPR, but the GDPR also offer relief and opportunity to allow the use of real world data for research purposes. Next, there wa a panel discussion on the Past, Present, and Future of the European Health Data Ecosystem. Panelists included Valentina Strammiello, Nikolaus Forgo, Isabelle Bos, Adil Mardinoglu, Thomas Allvin (EFPIA, BE), and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra (Oxford University, UK). Many interesting topic were discussed, such as: How can we do consent better? Whats the risk of not doing research on real world data? Can we keep sharing data once the GDPR is effective? Are we doing a good enough job of sharing the outcome of the data with the research participants? Projecting Forward During the last session, we projected forward, looking at the future of the health data ecosystem. Bo Saxberg (DDO Strategic Services, US) gave a lecture about the evolving value of real world data. By augmenting the currently available real world datasets, e.g., via the inclusion of longitudinal trajectories, you tremendously increase the value proposal of the dataset for all stakeholders. Pierre Meulien (IMI, BE) then talked about the current challenge when working with healthcare data. He mentioned how IMI hope to address these challenge in the future by focusing on the inclusion of all stakeholders, being agile, being scalable but also sustainable, and collaborating with IMIs associated partner and other key initiatives. For the full meeting report and the slide of the public symposium, please visit the . MAY 2018 05 Liberating Evidence from European Real World Data: The Odyssey of EMIF and the Legacy It Leaves An overview of the EMIF Catalogue and the community contained therein. At the time of writing, there are only six week left prior the official end of the (IMI) project known a the (EMIF, 20132018). EMIF ha been one of the most complex IMI project to date, incorporating three project in one: , the technology and governance framework; , in Alzheimers disease, and , in the metabolic consequence of obesity. EMIF had considerable aspiration and vision when it wa first conceived in circa 2011. The European health data research domain wa a very different world then. In the time that it took for the project to be agreed upon with IMI, initiated, and implemented, we saw remarkable change in how our world ha moved into the digital realm, including in healthcare. KEY POINTS Both EMIF-AD and EMIF-MET have contributed significantly to our understanding of the natural history of Alzheimers disease and the metabolic consequence of obesity, a well a identifying potential biomarkers. EMIF-PLAT ha developed a modular architecture to support the identification, assessment, and (re)use of health data, in conjunction with an overarching governance and research process. The EMIF platform will continue beyond the IMI project, led by Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, with support from Synapse Research Management Partners in Barcelona. The European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN), an ambitious follow-up to EMIF, is anticipated to take place 2018 2023. CONTRIBUTORS NIGEL HUGHESEFPIA Coordinator of EMIF-PLAT, Janssen Pharmaceutica R&D One of the Most Cited Projects in IMIs History Both EMIF-AD and EMIF-MET have contributed significantly to our understanding of the natural history of their respective disease areas, a well a identifying potential biomarkers. EMIF ha become one of the most cited project in IMIs history, and further publication will be forthcoming. Project lead for both EMIF-AD and EMIF-MET have concluded that their work, especially with regard to interaction with such large datasets, cohorts, and population data, could not have been accomplished by following a traditional route outside of EMIF. Insights into the research process with real world data have come from exploring diverse use cases, examining EMIFs ability to respond to research question within the two domains, and evaluating the platform architecture. Work completed a part of EMIF ha also highlighted bottleneck in the research process a well a potential socio-technical responses. Meanwhile, EMIF-PLAT ha collaborated with partner data custodian to develop a modular architecture to support the identification, assessment, and (re)use of health data, in conjunction with an overarching governance and research process. The went live a a publicly accessible resource in January 2016, and approximately 25 researcher utilize the Catalogue each day. It house a number of data communities, including population data source derived from electronic health record (EMIF EHR), AD cohort (, , and ), vaccine-related (), and pediatric (). Additional data community are being formed. A researcher can be granted access to a community through a Community Manager for the specific community of interest, and this accessibility will continue beyond the IMI project. EMIF Research Process The EMIF Platform wa developed with considerable work from multiple partner in EMIF. The University of Aveiro led the architecture development, while Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, led the data harmonization. We now have an EMIF platform that can support a research process from the query hypothesis, to catalogue-driven data source evaluation, to protocol development, task management, and data extraction or analytical output into a private remote research environment. The local governance and provenance of the data custodian is protected within this federated network, where the processing tool are distributed to the data source instead of moving the data to a central processing hub. A visualization of the tools, documents, and SOP process involved in the EMIF research process. As part of the (OHDSI) global collaboration, EMIF ha also taken a lead in promoting and utilizing the (OMOP CDM), a well a assisting in the launch of the EU Chapter of OHDSI. The OMOP CDM ha played a critical role within EMIF, making it possible for researcher and data custodian to collaborate and harmonize data. An Ambitious Follow-Up The EMIF platform, based on collaboration with EHR data custodian and cohort owner in EMIF-AD, will continue beyond the IMI project. The platform will continue to support open science, open source collaboration between researcher and data custodians, and a network of network of data sources. This continued collaboration will be led by Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, with support from Synapse Research Management Partners in Barcelona. The EMIF platform will also provide socio-technical input into future projects, including the European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN). EHDEN is an ambitious follow-up to EMIF, currently progressing through the grant process with IMI. Its anticipated to start before the end of 2018, again for five years. EHDEN could not have been proposed without the foundation provided by EMIF. A diagram showing the flow of information through EHDEN. To Learn More We look forward to promoting the EMIF legacy in the remainder of the project and beyond. Anyone wishing to consider conducting research via EMIF can access the to find the module of the EMIF platform a well a instructional material. For further information on conducting research with EMIF, please contact or . All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 08-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation EMIF WHITE PAPER (SEPTEMBER 2018) EMIF Public Symposium: Liberating Evidence From European Health Data Wednesday, 19 September 2018 @ 17:54 Since the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) began in 2008, it ha funded many successful programme to improve healthcare across the European Union (EU), and the European Medical Information Framework (EMIF) ha been no exception. The accomplishment made through EMIFespecially in the area of dementia, metabolic disorders, and data harmonization have produced a proven model for collaboration and data management in medical research. In doing so, EMIF is allowing research to happen at a speed and scale that wa previously not possible, say Bart Vannieuwenhuyse, Co-Coordinator of the overall EMIF project and Senior Director at Janssen Clinical Innovation Patient Data for Research (JCI-PDR). All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 04-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept Toggle navigation CONTACT Fields with an asterisk (*) are required First name Last name * Institution / Company Country Email * Your Enquiry * All content Copyright EMIF, All right Reserved. Last update 04-01-2019. This site us cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of them. Accept