The European Health Data Space is a health specific ecosystem comprised of rules, common standard and practices, infrastructure and a governance framework that aim at 1) empowering individual through increased digital access to and control of their electronic personal health data, at national level and EU-wide, and support to their free movement, a well a fostering a genuine single market for electronic health record systems, relevant medical device and high risk AI system (primary use of data) 2) providing a consistent, trustworthy and efficient set-up for the use of health data for research, innovation, policy-making and regulatory activity (secondary use of data) Aim: unleash the full potential of health data Toggle navigation The European Health Data Space (EHDS) What is the European Health Data Space (EHDS)? The European Health Data Space is a health specific ecosystem comprised of rules, common standard and practices, infrastructure and a governance framework that aim at: 1. Empowering individual through increased digital access to and control of their electronic personal health data, at national level and EU-wide. 2. Fostering a single market for electronic health record systems, relevant medical device and high risk AI systems. 3. Providing a trustworthy and efficient set-up for the use of health data for research, innovation, policy-making and regulatory activity (secondary use of data). The European Health Data Space is a key pillar of the European Health Union. It build further on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and the NIS 2 Directive. The European Union is building a strong European Health Union, in which all EU country prepare and respond to health crises, have available, affordable, innovative and adequate medical supplies, and member country work together to improve prevention, treatment and aftercare for diseases. The COVID-19 pandemic show the importance of coordination among European country to protect health, both during a crisis and in normal times. The European Health Union improves EU-level protection, prevention, preparedness and response against human health hazards. 24 April 2024 - The Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) approved the creation of the European Health Data Space (EHDS) MEPs voted with 445 in favour and 142 against (39 abstentions) to approve the inter-institutional agreement on establishing a European Health Data Space. It will empower patient to access their health data in an electronic format, including from a different member state to the one in which they live, and allow health professional to consult their patient file with their consent (so-called primary use), also from other EU countries. These electronic health record (EHR) would include patient summaries, electronic prescriptions, medical imagery and laboratory results. The law will make it possible to transfer health data safely to health professional in other EU country (based on MyHealth@EU infrastructure), for example when citizen move to another state. It will be possible to download the health record free of charge. Additionally, the Health Data Space would unleash the research potential of health data in an anonymised or pseudonymised format. Data including health records, clinical trials, pathogens, health claim and reimbursements, genetic data, public health registry information, wellness data and information on healthcare resources, expenditure and financing, could be processed for public interest purposes, including research, statistic and policy-making (so-called secondary use). Data could, for example, be used to find treatment for rare diseases, where small datasets and fragmentation currently prevent advance in treatments. Secondary use will not be allowed for commercial purpose including advertising, assessing insurance request or lending condition or making job market decisions. Access decision will be made by national data access bodies. Next step The provisional agreement still need to be formally approved by the Council. Once published in the EUs Official Journal, it will enter into force twenty day later. It will be applied two year after, with certain exceptions, including primary and secondary use of data categories, which will apply four to six year later, depending on the category. 15 March 2024 - political agreement reached between the European Parliament and the Council of the EU on the European Health Data Space (EHDS), one of the central building block of a strong European Health Union. Next step: The European Parliament and the Council will formally adopt the new Regulation. The agreement reached by the co-legislators establishes clear rule for the use of health data for better healthcare delivery, research, innovation, and policymaking. The new rule will harness the potential offered by the safe and secure exchange, use, and re-use of health data, while ensuring full compliance with the EU's high data protection standards. Under the new rules, citizen will have immediate and easy access to their digital health data wherever they are in the EU. Health professional will be able to access the medical record of a patient when required for treatment in a different Member State, allowing for evidence-based decision making, in full compliance with EU data protection rules. The EHDS also creates a strong legal framework for the re-use of health data for research, innovation, and public health purposes. The data will help develop life-saving treatment and personalised medicines, but also improve crisis preparedness, under strict data security and access conditions, and respecting fundamental rights. 6 December 2023 - Agreement on the Councils proposal for the European Health Data Space (EHDS) After this agreement, the EU Council presidency begin negotiation with the European Parliament, with a view to reaching a provisional agreement on the proposed regulation. The Councils mandate provides clarity on issue such a the scope of the regulation, alignment with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the criterion for providing access to electronic health data. The Council proposes the creation of two steering groups, made up of member-state representatives, to manage MyHealth@EU and HealthData@EU; other stakeholder may be invited a observer to discus relevant issues. The Councils mandate expands the role of EU member state in the proposed EHDS governing board, and requires national digital health authority to publish an activity report every two years. Under the Councils mandate, member state will have the discretion to allow patient to opt out of the new data-sharing system. 3 May 2022 - The European Commission launched the European Health Data Space (EHDS) 1. Thanks to the EHDS, people will have immediate, and easy access to the data in electronic form, free of charge. They can easily share these data with other health professional in and across Member States to improve health care delivery. Citizens will be in full control of their data and will be able to add information, rectify wrong data, restrict access to others and obtain information on how their data are used and for which purpose. 2. Member States will ensure that patient summaries, ePrescriptions, image and image reports, laboratory results, discharge report are issued and accepted in a common European format. 3. Interoperability and security will become mandatory requirements. Manufacturers of electronic health record system will need to certify compliance with these standards. 4. To ensure that citizens' right are safeguarded, all Member States have to appoint digital health authorities. These authority will participate in the cross-border digital infrastructure (MyHealth@EU) that will support patient to share their data across borders. 5. The EHDS creates a strong legal framework for the use of health data for research, innovation, public health, policy-making and regulatory purposes. Under strict conditions, researchers, innovators, public institution or industry will have access to large amount of high-quality health data, crucial to develop life-saving treatments, vaccine or medical device and ensuring better access to healthcare and more resilient health systems. 6. The access to such data by researchers, company or institution will require a permit from a health data access body, to be set up in all Member States. Access will only be granted if the requested data is used for specific purposes, in closed, secure environment and without revealing the identity of the individual. It is also strictly prohibited to use the data for decisions, which are detrimental to citizen such a designing harmful product or service or increasing an insurance premium. 7. The health data access body will be connected to the new decentralised EU-infrastructure for secondary use (HealthData@EU) which will be set up to support cross-border projects. Understanding the European Health Data Space (EHDS) Digitalisation is essential for the future of healthcare. The digital transformation is crucial to provide better healthcare to citizens, to build stronger and more resilient health systems, to support long-term competitiveness and innovation in the EUs medical industry, and to help the EU recover from the pandemic. Data is an indispensable part of today world. When used responsibly and in full respect of fundamental rights, it can bring incredible benefit to every aspect of our everyday lives, including our health. Member States health system already generate, process and store a vast amount of data. Yet it often remains difficult for citizen to access their health data electronically and for researcher to use it to improve diagnosis and treatments. A vast amount of health data is generated every second, providing healthcare service and researcher with potential valuable insights. Health data reuse is estimated to be worth around EUR 25-30 billion annually. That figure is expected to reach around EUR 50 billion within 10 years. However, the complexity and divergence of rules, structure and process within and across Member States make it difficult to easily access and share health data. This creates barrier to healthcare delivery and innovation, leaving patient unable to benefit from it potential. Moreover, health system are becoming the target of cyberattacks. Therefore, the healthcare sector and relevant cyber security authority need to consider cybersecurity a a key factor for ensuring the resilience and availability of key healthcare services. In essence, the EU health sector is rich in data, but poor in making it work for people and science. The EU need to tap into this huge potential to turn the wealth of health data across Europe into knowledge at the service of citizens, and to better prevent, diagnose and treat diseases. Health data can help achieve more efficient, higher-quality, safer and more personalised care, and help improve healthcare delivery. Health data3 and data science could dramatically transform public health and revolutionise healthcare systems, enabling lifesaving healthcare improvements. Health data can also play a crucial role in speeding up the development of new medical product and treatment for patient who need them most. The COVID-19 pandemic ha clearly demonstrated the importance of digital service in the health domain. It ha shown that up-to-date, reliable and FAIR health data is key in providing an efficient public health response to crisis and in developing effective treatment and vaccines. It ha also significantly accelerated the uptake of digital tools, such a electronic health record (personal medical record or similar document in digital form), e-prescriptions and digital health applications, a well a the sharing of research data. Digital health product and services, including telehealth, are no longer novelties. They are becoming a part of everyday care delivery. Harnessing the power of health data through the digital transformation is especially relevant when patient move within or to other EU countries; and when researchers, innovators, policy-makers or regulator need critical data that can enable the power of science to help patients. Similarly, sharing health data in border region where individual access healthcare service across the border much more frequently will be far easier. Current challenge in using health data. People cannot always easily access their health data electronically, and if they want to consult doctor in more than one hospital or medical centre, they often cannot share the data with other health professionals. Today, a patient health data is often still recorded on paper, untraceable and scattered across various place (hospitals, general practitioner venues, medical centres, etc.). The situation becomes even more difficult when crossing national borders. If a patient visit a doctor in another country, their medical information (including diagnostic images) is often not accessible, which can lead to delay and error in diagnosis or treatment. In most cases, doctor cannot see the patient health data if they have undergone health intervention in another country. Continuity of care and rapid access to personal electronic health data is even more important for resident in border regions, crossing the border frequently to receive healthcare. The open public consultation23 for the European Health Data Space proposal showed that 88% of respondent think it should promote citizen control over their own health data, including access to health data and transmission of their health data in electronic format. 84% of respondent say that citizen should have the right to transmit one health data in electronic format to another professional or entity of their choice and 82% feel that they should have the right to request public healthcare provider to share their health data electronically with other healthcare providers/entities of their choice. 83% of respondent say that the European Health Data Space should facilitate delivery of healthcare for citizen across borders. Researchers and industry, along with policy-makers and innovators, face important obstacle in accessing the data they need to develop new products, to take informed decision or to monitor the side effect of medicinal product over the long term, based on real-world evidence, with impact on patient safety. In many cases, consent is the only way to access data for research, policy-making and regulatory purposes. It is very costly and cumbersome for researcher to get consent from every patient to use the patient data in their research. Even when the patient consents, data holder are sometimes reluctant to provide data for reason other than data protection and prefer to keep the health data for their activities. The current regulatory fragmentation between Member States hamper research and innovation by small players, a well a cross-border research. Primary use of health data. 1. Patients will have their electronic health data available via access point established by Member States. A cross-border digital infrastructure for primary use will connect Member States and allow patient to share their health data. 2. Patients will be empowered to control and share their electronic health data with a healthcare provider of their choice. 3. Member States will be required to make priority category of data available in a common European electronic health record exchange format, such a patient summaries, e-prescriptions, e-dispensations, medical image and image reports, laboratory result and discharge reports. 4. Where personal health data ha not been collected electronically prior to the application of this Regulation, Member States may decide not to convert it into an electronic format. 5. Health professional will be able to access electronic health record and should update the electronic health data of the patient they treat. 6. To support data being shared between healthcare providers, mandatory requirement for interoperability, security, safety and privacy will be introduced, a well a mandatory self-certification of electronic health record covering interoperability and security. 7. All Member States will be required to participate in cross-border digital infrastructure for the exchange of health data for healthcare delivery (MyHealth@EU). 8. A pilot project will support patient having access to their data on a mobile device in the language of the country of destination. 9. To facilitate the implementation, transitional period will apply for certain obligation including the registration of health data, access of health professional to data, making data available in the European format, the participation in the cross border digital infrastructure, self-certification of electronic health record systems, a well a the voluntary label for wellness applications. 10. Member States will have to set up a digital health authority to ensure that the additional right for individual are properly implemented. Secondary use of health data. 1. The European Health Data Space set out a common EU framework allowing for use of health data for research, innovation, public health, policy-making, regulatory activity and personalised medicine. It will draw on the creation of a new and decentralised EUinfrastructure for secondary use of health data (HealthData@EU) that will connect health data access body which should be set up in all Member States. 2. Those who wish to re-use health data will need to apply for a permit from a health data access body. The data permit set out how the data may be used and for what purpose. 3. The data can only be accessed and processed in closed secure environment to be provided by the health data access body with clear standard for cyber security. 4. Only anonymous data can be extracted by the user who applied for the permit from the secure processing environment. Where researchers, company or public institution need access to personal electronic health data they can only access it in pseudonymised form, i.e. data offering information about the disease, symptom and medication, without revealing to the user the identity of the individual. It is forbidden for the user to attempt to re-identify the data subjects. 5. It will be forbidden to use the data to take decision detrimental to individuals, to increase insurance premiums, to market health product towards health professional or patient or to design harmful product or services. 6. Health data access body will have to ensure transparency: information will be published about data access applications. In addition, data user must make public the result of their electronic health data us and inform the health data access body of any significant finding relevant for the health of individuals. 7. For simple cases, user can directly request data from a single health data provider a long a the same safeguard for privacy and security are ensured. 8. Researchers and innovator from third country can access data for secondary use under the same condition and requirement a those from inside the EU. 9. All Member States will be required to participate in the EU-infrastructure for secondary use (HealthData@EU) to facilitate cross-border studies. This infrastructure will be piloted in a EU4Health project starting in 2022. EU governance mechanism. 1. A new European Health Data Space Board chaired by the Commission will be created, composed of the representative of digital health authority and health data access body from all the Member States, and observers, depending on area of work. 2. It will contribute to the consistent application of the Regulation throughout the EU, to coordinate and exchange best practice and will cooperate with other body at EU level. 3. Member States will cooperate at EU level to ensure the smooth functioning of the two cross-border digital infrastructure (primary and secondary). The European Health Data Space, together with the GDPR, will give people the right to: 1. Access their health data in electronic form immediately, free of charge and in an easily readable, accessible and commonly used format. Data can be accessed using patient portals, on computer or smart phones, depending on how the Member States make available this information at national level. For people with disability to be able to enjoy their rights, the access must be accessible in line with the requirement of the European Accessibility Act (Directive 2019/882); 2. Share their data in electronic form with other health professional when going to another hospital, without hindrance from previous healthcare provider or manufacturers; 3. Add data to their electronic health record for themselves or for people who trust them, such a their children; 4. Request change to erroneous data online; 5. Restrict access to their electronic health data or part of the data; in case of vital interest, where their life is at stake, such data may however be made available with additional restrictions; 6. Easily obtain information on which professional(s) accessed their data. Member States are required to designate digital health authority that will have a fundamental role in enforcing the above-mentioned rights. Examples of how the EHDS will function Example 1: A woman living in Portugal is going on holiday to France. Unfortunately, she get sick in France and therefore need to see a local general practitioner. Thanks to the EHDS and MyHealth@EU, a doctor in France will see on his/her computer the medical history of this patient in French. The doctor can prescribe the necessary medicine based on the medical history of the patient, avoiding for instance product to which the patient is allergic. Example 2: A health tech company is developing a new AI-based medical decision support tool that assist doctor to make diagnostic and treatment decision following a review of the patient's laboratory images. The AI compare the patient's image with those of many other previous patients. Through the EHDS, the company is able to have efficient and secure access to a large number of medical image to train the AI algorithm and optimise it accuracy and effectiveness before seeking market approval. Example 3: A man ha a medical image of his lungs, taken in the public hospital where he wa brought in by the emergency team. Shortly after, he visit his regular pulmonologist in another hospital. Thanks to the EHDS, his pulmonologist can see the medical image performed in the other hospital, thus avoiding a new, unnecessary test. Toggle navigation The European Health Data Space (EHDS) What is the European Health Data Space (EHDS)? The European Health Data Space is a health specific ecosystem comprised of rules, common standard and practices, infrastructure and a governance framework that aim at: 1. Empowering individual through increased digital access to and control of their electronic personal health data, at national level and EU-wide. 2. Fostering a single market for electronic health record systems, relevant medical device and high risk AI systems. 3. Providing a trustworthy and efficient set-up for the use of health data for research, innovation, policy-making and regulatory activity (secondary use of data). The European Health Data Space is a key pillar of the European Health Union. It build further on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and the NIS 2 Directive. The European Union is building a strong European Health Union, in which all EU country prepare and respond to health crises, have available, affordable, innovative and adequate medical supplies, and member country work together to improve prevention, treatment and aftercare for diseases. The COVID-19 pandemic show the importance of coordination among European country to protect health, both during a crisis and in normal times. The European Health Union improves EU-level protection, prevention, preparedness and response against human health hazards. 24 April 2024 - The Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) approved the creation of the European Health Data Space (EHDS) MEPs voted with 445 in favour and 142 against (39 abstentions) to approve the inter-institutional agreement on establishing a European Health Data Space. It will empower patient to access their health data in an electronic format, including from a different member state to the one in which they live, and allow health professional to consult their patient file with their consent (so-called primary use), also from other EU countries. These electronic health record (EHR) would include patient summaries, electronic prescriptions, medical imagery and laboratory results. The law will make it possible to transfer health data safely to health professional in other EU country (based on MyHealth@EU infrastructure), for example when citizen move to another state. It will be possible to download the health record free of charge. Additionally, the Health Data Space would unleash the research potential of health data in an anonymised or pseudonymised format. Data including health records, clinical trials, pathogens, health claim and reimbursements, genetic data, public health registry information, wellness data and information on healthcare resources, expenditure and financing, could be processed for public interest purposes, including research, statistic and policy-making (so-called secondary use). Data could, for example, be used to find treatment for rare diseases, where small datasets and fragmentation currently prevent advance in treatments. Secondary use will not be allowed for commercial purpose including advertising, assessing insurance request or lending condition or making job market decisions. Access decision will be made by national data access bodies. Next step The provisional agreement still need to be formally approved by the Council. Once published in the EUs Official Journal, it will enter into force twenty day later. It will be applied two year after, with certain exceptions, including primary and secondary use of data categories, which will apply four to six year later, depending on the category. 15 March 2024 - political agreement reached between the European Parliament and the Council of the EU on the European Health Data Space (EHDS), one of the central building block of a strong European Health Union. Next step: The European Parliament and the Council will formally adopt the new Regulation. The agreement reached by the co-legislators establishes clear rule for the use of health data for better healthcare delivery, research, innovation, and policymaking. The new rule will harness the potential offered by the safe and secure exchange, use, and re-use of health data, while ensuring full compliance with the EU's high data protection standards. Under the new rules, citizen will have immediate and easy access to their digital health data wherever they are in the EU. Health professional will be able to access the medical record of a patient when required for treatment in a different Member State, allowing for evidence-based decision making, in full compliance with EU data protection rules. The EHDS also creates a strong legal framework for the re-use of health data for research, innovation, and public health purposes. The data will help develop life-saving treatment and personalised medicines, but also improve crisis preparedness, under strict data security and access conditions, and respecting fundamental rights. 6 December 2023 - Agreement on the Councils proposal for the European Health Data Space (EHDS) After this agreement, the EU Council presidency begin negotiation with the European Parliament, with a view to reaching a provisional agreement on the proposed regulation. The Councils mandate provides clarity on issue such a the scope of the regulation, alignment with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the criterion for providing access to electronic health data. The Council proposes the creation of two steering groups, made up of member-state representatives, to manage MyHealth@EU and HealthData@EU; other stakeholder may be invited a observer to discus relevant issues. The Councils mandate expands the role of EU member state in the proposed EHDS governing board, and requires national digital health authority to publish an activity report every two years. Under the Councils mandate, member state will have the discretion to allow patient to opt out of the new data-sharing system. 3 May 2022 - The European Commission launched the European Health Data Space (EHDS) 1. Thanks to the EHDS, people will have immediate, and easy access to the data in electronic form, free of charge. They can easily share these data with other health professional in and across Member States to improve health care delivery. Citizens will be in full control of their data and will be able to add information, rectify wrong data, restrict access to others and obtain information on how their data are used and for which purpose. 2. Member States will ensure that patient summaries, ePrescriptions, image and image reports, laboratory results, discharge report are issued and accepted in a common European format. 3. Interoperability and security will become mandatory requirements. Manufacturers of electronic health record system will need to certify compliance with these standards. 4. To ensure that citizens' right are safeguarded, all Member States have to appoint digital health authorities. These authority will participate in the cross-border digital infrastructure (MyHealth@EU) that will support patient to share their data across borders. 5. The EHDS creates a strong legal framework for the use of health data for research, innovation, public health, policy-making and regulatory purposes. Under strict conditions, researchers, innovators, public institution or industry will have access to large amount of high-quality health data, crucial to develop life-saving treatments, vaccine or medical device and ensuring better access to healthcare and more resilient health systems. 6. The access to such data by researchers, company or institution will require a permit from a health data access body, to be set up in all Member States. Access will only be granted if the requested data is used for specific purposes, in closed, secure environment and without revealing the identity of the individual. It is also strictly prohibited to use the data for decisions, which are detrimental to citizen such a designing harmful product or service or increasing an insurance premium. 7. The health data access body will be connected to the new decentralised EU-infrastructure for secondary use (HealthData@EU) which will be set up to support cross-border projects. Understanding the European Health Data Space (EHDS) Digitalisation is essential for the future of healthcare. The digital transformation is crucial to provide better healthcare to citizens, to build stronger and more resilient health systems, to support long-term competitiveness and innovation in the EUs medical industry, and to help the EU recover from the pandemic. Data is an indispensable part of today world. When used responsibly and in full respect of fundamental rights, it can bring incredible benefit to every aspect of our everyday lives, including our health. Member States health system already generate, process and store a vast amount of data. Yet it often remains difficult for citizen to access their health data electronically and for researcher to use it to improve diagnosis and treatments. A vast amount of health data is generated every second, providing healthcare service and researcher with potential valuable insights. Health data reuse is estimated to be worth around EUR 25-30 billion annually. That figure is expected to reach around EUR 50 billion within 10 years. However, the complexity and divergence of rules, structure and process within and across Member States make it difficult to easily access and share health data. This creates barrier to healthcare delivery and innovation, leaving patient unable to benefit from it potential. Moreover, health system are becoming the target of cyberattacks. Therefore, the healthcare sector and relevant cyber security authority need to consider cybersecurity a a key factor for ensuring the resilience and availability of key healthcare services. In essence, the EU health sector is rich in data, but poor in making it work for people and science. The EU need to tap into this huge potential to turn the wealth of health data across Europe into knowledge at the service of citizens, and to better prevent, diagnose and treat diseases. Health data can help achieve more efficient, higher-quality, safer and more personalised care, and help improve healthcare delivery. Health data3 and data science could dramatically transform public health and revolutionise healthcare systems, enabling lifesaving healthcare improvements. Health data can also play a crucial role in speeding up the development of new medical product and treatment for patient who need them most. The COVID-19 pandemic ha clearly demonstrated the importance of digital service in the health domain. It ha shown that up-to-date, reliable and FAIR health data is key in providing an efficient public health response to crisis and in developing effective treatment and vaccines. It ha also significantly accelerated the uptake of digital tools, such a electronic health record (personal medical record or similar document in digital form), e-prescriptions and digital health applications, a well a the sharing of research data. Digital health product and services, including telehealth, are no longer novelties. They are becoming a part of everyday care delivery. Harnessing the power of health data through the digital transformation is especially relevant when patient move within or to other EU countries; and when researchers, innovators, policy-makers or regulator need critical data that can enable the power of science to help patients. Similarly, sharing health data in border region where individual access healthcare service across the border much more frequently will be far easier. Current challenge in using health data. People cannot always easily access their health data electronically, and if they want to consult doctor in more than one hospital or medical centre, they often cannot share the data with other health professionals. Today, a patient health data is often still recorded on paper, untraceable and scattered across various place (hospitals, general practitioner venues, medical centres, etc.). The situation becomes even more difficult when crossing national borders. If a patient visit a doctor in another country, their medical information (including diagnostic images) is often not accessible, which can lead to delay and error in diagnosis or treatment. In most cases, doctor cannot see the patient health data if they have undergone health intervention in another country. Continuity of care and rapid access to personal electronic health data is even more important for resident in border regions, crossing the border frequently to receive healthcare. The open public consultation23 for the European Health Data Space proposal showed that 88% of respondent think it should promote citizen control over their own health data, including access to health data and transmission of their health data in electronic format. 84% of respondent say that citizen should have the right to transmit one health data in electronic format to another professional or entity of their choice and 82% feel that they should have the right to request public healthcare provider to share their health data electronically with other healthcare providers/entities of their choice. 83% of respondent say that the European Health Data Space should facilitate delivery of healthcare for citizen across borders. Researchers and industry, along with policy-makers and innovators, face important obstacle in accessing the data they need to develop new products, to take informed decision or to monitor the side effect of medicinal product over the long term, based on real-world evidence, with impact on patient safety. In many cases, consent is the only way to access data for research, policy-making and regulatory purposes. It is very costly and cumbersome for researcher to get consent from every patient to use the patient data in their research. Even when the patient consents, data holder are sometimes reluctant to provide data for reason other than data protection and prefer to keep the health data for their activities. The current regulatory fragmentation between Member States hamper research and innovation by small players, a well a cross-border research. Primary use of health data. 1. Patients will have their electronic health data available via access point established by Member States. A cross-border digital infrastructure for primary use will connect Member States and allow patient to share their health data. 2. Patients will be empowered to control and share their electronic health data with a healthcare provider of their choice. 3. Member States will be required to make priority category of data available in a common European electronic health record exchange format, such a patient summaries, e-prescriptions, e-dispensations, medical image and image reports, laboratory result and discharge reports. 4. Where personal health data ha not been collected electronically prior to the application of this Regulation, Member States may decide not to convert it into an electronic format. 5. Health professional will be able to access electronic health record and should update the electronic health data of the patient they treat. 6. To support data being shared between healthcare providers, mandatory requirement for interoperability, security, safety and privacy will be introduced, a well a mandatory self-certification of electronic health record covering interoperability and security. 7. All Member States will be required to participate in cross-border digital infrastructure for the exchange of health data for healthcare delivery (MyHealth@EU). 8. A pilot project will support patient having access to their data on a mobile device in the language of the country of destination. 9. To facilitate the implementation, transitional period will apply for certain obligation including the registration of health data, access of health professional to data, making data available in the European format, the participation in the cross border digital infrastructure, self-certification of electronic health record systems, a well a the voluntary label for wellness applications. 10. Member States will have to set up a digital health authority to ensure that the additional right for individual are properly implemented. Secondary use of health data. 1. The European Health Data Space set out a common EU framework allowing for use of health data for research, innovation, public health, policy-making, regulatory activity and personalised medicine. It will draw on the creation of a new and decentralised EUinfrastructure for secondary use of health data (HealthData@EU) that will connect health data access body which should be set up in all Member States. 2. Those who wish to re-use health data will need to apply for a permit from a health data access body. The data permit set out how the data may be used and for what purpose. 3. The data can only be accessed and processed in closed secure environment to be provided by the health data access body with clear standard for cyber security. 4. Only anonymous data can be extracted by the user who applied for the permit from the secure processing environment. Where researchers, company or public institution need access to personal electronic health data they can only access it in pseudonymised form, i.e. data offering information about the disease, symptom and medication, without revealing to the user the identity of the individual. It is forbidden for the user to attempt to re-identify the data subjects. 5. It will be forbidden to use the data to take decision detrimental to individuals, to increase insurance premiums, to market health product towards health professional or patient or to design harmful product or services. 6. Health data access body will have to ensure transparency: information will be published about data access applications. In addition, data user must make public the result of their electronic health data us and inform the health data access body of any significant finding relevant for the health of individuals. 7. For simple cases, user can directly request data from a single health data provider a long a the same safeguard for privacy and security are ensured. 8. Researchers and innovator from third country can access data for secondary use under the same condition and requirement a those from inside the EU. 9. All Member States will be required to participate in the EU-infrastructure for secondary use (HealthData@EU) to facilitate cross-border studies. This infrastructure will be piloted in a EU4Health project starting in 2022. EU governance mechanism. 1. A new European Health Data Space Board chaired by the Commission will be created, composed of the representative of digital health authority and health data access body from all the Member States, and observers, depending on area of work. 2. It will contribute to the consistent application of the Regulation throughout the EU, to coordinate and exchange best practice and will cooperate with other body at EU level. 3. Member States will cooperate at EU level to ensure the smooth functioning of the two cross-border digital infrastructure (primary and secondary). The European Health Data Space, together with the GDPR, will give people the right to: 1. Access their health data in electronic form immediately, free of charge and in an easily readable, accessible and commonly used format. Data can be accessed using patient portals, on computer or smart phones, depending on how the Member States make available this information at national level. For people with disability to be able to enjoy their rights, the access must be accessible in line with the requirement of the European Accessibility Act (Directive 2019/882); 2. Share their data in electronic form with other health professional when going to another hospital, without hindrance from previous healthcare provider or manufacturers; 3. Add data to their electronic health record for themselves or for people who trust them, such a their children; 4. Request change to erroneous data online; 5. Restrict access to their electronic health data or part of the data; in case of vital interest, where their life is at stake, such data may however be made available with additional restrictions; 6. Easily obtain information on which professional(s) accessed their data. Member States are required to designate digital health authority that will have a fundamental role in enforcing the above-mentioned rights. Examples of how the EHDS will function Example 1: A woman living in Portugal is going on holiday to France. Unfortunately, she get sick in France and therefore need to see a local general practitioner. Thanks to the EHDS and MyHealth@EU, a doctor in France will see on his/her computer the medical history of this patient in French. The doctor can prescribe the necessary medicine based on the medical history of the patient, avoiding for instance product to which the patient is allergic. Example 2: A health tech company is developing a new AI-based medical decision support tool that assist doctor to make diagnostic and treatment decision following a review of the patient's laboratory images. The AI compare the patient's image with those of many other previous patients. Through the EHDS, the company is able to have efficient and secure access to a large number of medical image to train the AI algorithm and optimise it accuracy and effectiveness before seeking market approval. Example 3: A man ha a medical image of his lungs, taken in the public hospital where he wa brought in by the emergency team. Shortly after, he visit his regular pulmonologist in another hospital. Thanks to the EHDS, his pulmonologist can see the medical image performed in the other hospital, thus avoiding a new, unnecessary test. Toggle navigation Training, European Health Data Space (EHDS) Training program 1 Preparing for the European Health Data Space (EHDS), for EU and non-EU healthcare provider (tailored-made training). Note: This program will be offered 3 month after the announcement of the final text of the European Health Data Space (EHDS). Possible module of the tailor-made training program. - Reasons, and objective of the European Health Data Space (EHDS). - The problem with the uneven implementation and interpretation of the GDPR Regulation, and the considerable legal uncertainties, resulting in barrier to secondary use of electronic health data. - The EHDS a a domain-specific common European data space. - Health-specific challenge to electronic health data access and sharing. - The EHDS a part of the European Health Union. - How the EHDS complement the Data Governance Act (that lay down condition for secondary use of public sector data), and the Data Act (that enhances portability of certain user-generated data, that include health data), and provides more specific rule for the health sector. - How the EHDS interacts with the NIS 2 Directive, that improves cybersecurity risk management and introduces reporting obligation across sector such a energy, transport, health and digital infrastructure. - Subject matter, scope and definition of the EHDS regulation. - The additional right and mechanism designed to complement the natural person right provided under the GDPR in relation to their electronic health data. - The obligation of health professional in relation to electronic health data. - The need for each Member State to have a digital health authority, responsible for monitoring the EHDS right and mechanisms. - The new common infrastructure "MyHealth@EU", that facilitates cross-border exchange of electronic health data. - The mandatory self-certification scheme for EHR systems, and compliance with interoperability and security requirements. - Compatibility of electronic health record for easy transmission of electronic health data between systems. - The obligation of each economic operator of EHR systems. - The labelling of wellness applications, interoperable with EHR systems. - The EU database where certified EHR system and labelled wellness application will be registered. - The secondary use of electronic health data, for research, innovation, policy making, patient safety or regulatory activities. - Data type that can be used for defined purposes. Prohibited purposes. - The implementation of "data altruism" in health. - Duties and obligation of the health data access body, the data holder and the data users. - Responsibilities for the health data access body and data user a joint controller of the processed electronic health data. - The secondary use of electronic health data, the costs, and the transparency of fee calculation. - The secure processing environment, required to access and process electronic health data. - The condition and the information needed in the data request form for obtaining access to electronic health data. - Conditions attached to the issuance of the data permit. - Setting up and fostering cross-border access to electronic health data, so that a data user in one Member State can have access to electronic health data for secondary use from other Member States, without having to request a data permit from all these Member States. - The cross-border infrastructure. - The international access to non-personal data in the EHDS. - The European Health Data Space Board (EHDS Board) that facilitates the cooperation between digital health authority and health data access bodies. - The composition of the EHDS Board, and how it is organised and functioning. - Joint controllership groups, tasked with taking decision related to the cross-border digital infrastructure necessary, both for primary and secondary use of electronic health data. - The European Health Data Space (EHDS) for non-EU healthcare providers. - The other EU directive and regulation that affect healthcare providers. - Closing remarks. Target Audience, duration. We offer a 60-minute overview for the board of director and senior management of EU and non-EU healthcare providers, tailored to their needs. We also offer 4 hour to one day training for risk and compliance teams, responsible for the European Health Data Space (EHDS) and the other EU directive and regulation that affect the healthcare industry. Instructor. Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Training program 2. Cybersecurity training for the healthcare industry. Overview In 2020, hospitals, healthcare provider and medical facility were struggling to handle not only the influx of patient suffering from Covid-19, but also a surge of ransomware attacks, a criminal (including state-sponsored groups) exploited the crisis to hit the sector. Month after month, there are many successful cyberattacks on the healthcare industry. Cybersecurity breach that expose sensitive data from thousand of people are especially important, a the privacy rule have become a nightmare for healthcare providers. Social engineering, malware attacks, computer theft, unauthorized access to sensitive information (medical history, treatment of patient etc.) and ransomware, are only some of the challenges. WannaCry ransomware, for example, crippled part of the U.K.s National Health Service for many days. After a successful attack, the damage to brand reputation of the healthcare provider is very important. Healthcare provider must have sufficient defense mechanism in place, and must be able to provide evidence about that. Cybersecurity awareness and training for healthcare practitioners, doctor and personnel is an important step, a even the best system cannot protect the industry, when the person having authorized access do not understand the risk and the modus operandi of the attackers. Cybersecurity wa not historically a major component of healthcare management. Month after month the industry is evolving into an increasingly digital environment, and in today threat landscape, healthcare organization have cybersecurity professional on staff, establish security policy and procedures, follow corporate governance best practices, ensure C-suite support and board involvement in understanding risk and countermeasures, and train all person that have access to sensitive data. A very significant priority is to ensure that each user who ha access to sensitive data is well-trained and able to use data efficiently for the appropriate purpose. Cybersecurity lead to inconvenience by design. Only when user understand the risk and the need for countermeasures, they do not cut corner and they follow the policy and the procedures. We always tailor our training program to meet specific requirements. You may contact u to discus your needs. Target Audience The program is beneficial to all person working for the healthcare industry (medical care, administration, research, sales, and consulting). It ha been designed for doctors, nurses, assistants, therapists, laboratory technicians, and all person having authorized access to system and data. Duration One hour to one day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. We always tailor the program to the need of each client. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. Modules of the tailor-made training Introduction. - Important development in the healthcare industry after the new privacy regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). - Understanding the challenges. An overview of some of the attack described below, that are suitable for the objective of the training. At the end of the presentation we will cover one or more of these attack in depth. - March 2016, 21st Century Oncology reveals that 2.2 million patient personal information may have been stolen, including patient names, Social Security numbers, doctor names, diagnosis and treatment information, and insurance information. - September 2020, a ransomware attack to Universal Health Systems caused affected hospital to revert to manual backups, divert ambulances, and reschedule surgeries. - May 2022, hacker targeted Greenlands healthcare system, causing network to crash throughout the island, affecting health services. - January 2022, a hacking group breached several German pharma and tech firms. According to the German government, it wa primarily an attempt to steal intellectual property. - January 2022, hacker breached system belonging to the International Committee of the Red Cross, gaining access to data on more than 500,000 people and disrupting their service around the world. - March 2021, intelligence service targeted the European Medicines Agency, stealing document relating to COVID-19 vaccine and medicines. - December 2020, hacker accessed data related to the COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer during an attack on the European Medicines Agency. - February 2021, attempt to break into the computer system of Pfizer to gain information about vaccine and treatment for the COVID-19. - November 2020, hacker targeted COVID-19 vaccine developer AstraZeneca by posing a recruiter and sending the company employee fake job offer that included malware. - May 2018, atatckers used Facebook Messenger to distribute spyware to target in the Middle East, Afghanistan, and India in an attempt to compromise government officials, medical professionals, and others. - April 2019, pharmaceutical company Bayer announced it had prevented an attack targeting sensitive intellectual property. - How could all these attack succeed? Can we prevent challenge like the above? Who is the attacker? - Countries, competitors, criminal organizations, small groups, individuals, employees, insiders, service providers. - Hacktivists and the healthcare industry. - Professional criminal and information warriors. - Cyber attack against doctors, nurses, assistants, therapists, laboratory technicians, and all person having authorized access to system and data. How do the adversary plan and execute the attack? - Step 1 Collecting information about person and systems. - Step 2 Identifying possible target and victims. - Step 3 Evaluation, recruitment, and testing. - Step 4 - Privilege escalation. - Step 5 Identifying important client and VIPs. - Step 6 Critical infrastructure. Employees and their weakness and vulnerabilities. - Employee collusion with external parties. - Blackmailing employees: The art and the science. - Romance fraudsters and webcam blackmail: Which is the risk for the healthcare industry? What do we need? How can it be exploited? - a. Speed and convenience. It is difficult to balance speed, convenience, and security. - b. Effective and efficient web site, medical computer and systems, mobile tracking, and monitoring of health devices. Examples of challenge and risks. - c. Great customer service. Example - how it can be exploited. - d. A nice facility and great housekeeping. Example - The cleaning staff hack. - e. Food, drinks, and entertainment. Point-of-sale (POS) fraud and challenges. Credit card cloning. - f. Internet access. Honeypots, rogue access points, man-in-the middle attack. - g. Security. Unauthorized access is a major problem, and social engineering is a great tool for attackers. - h. Privacy. The healthcare industry is considered one of the most vulnerable to data threats. - i. Money (if they can sue the health provider for negligence). What must be protected? - Best practice for managers, employees, doctors, nurses, assistants, therapists, laboratory technicians, and all person having authorized access to system and data. - What to do, what to avoid. - From client satisfaction vs. cyber security, to client satisfaction a the result of cyber security. Malware. - Trojan Horses and free programs, games, and utilities. - Ransomware. Social Engineering. - Reverse Social Engineering. - Common social engineering technique - 1. Pretexting. - 2. Baiting. - 3. Something for something. - 4. Tailgating. Phishing attacks. - Spear-phishing. - Clone phishing. - Whaling phishing for executives. - Smishing and Vishing Attacks. Cyber Hygiene. - The online analogue of personal hygiene. - Personal devices. - Untrusted storage devices. Case studies. We will discus the mistake and the consequence in one or more of the following case studies: - March 2016, 21st Century Oncology attack. - September 2020, Universal Health Systems attack. - May 2022, Greenlands healthcare system attack. - January 2022, German pharma and tech firm attack. - January 2022, International Committee of the Red Cross attack. - March 2021, European Medicines Agency. - December 2020, COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer during an attack on the European Medicines Agency. - February 2021, attempt to break into the computer system of Pfizer to gain information about vaccine and treatment for the COVID-19. - November 2020, hacker targeted AstraZeneca by posing a recruiters. - May 2018, Facebook Messenger to distribute spyware to medical professionals. - April 2019, Bayer announced it had prevented an attack targeting sensitive intellectual property. - What ha happened? Why ha it happened? Which were the consequences? How could it be avoided? What can we learn from that? Closing remark and questions. Target Audience, duration. We offer a 60-minute overview for the board of director and senior management of EU and non-EU firms, tailored to their needs. We also offer 4 hour to one day training for risk and compliance teams, responsible for the implementation of the EU directive and regulations. Instructor. Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: Toggle navigation Board Training in the Healthcare Industry Overview The Board and the CEO of legal entity in the healthcare industry must have the knowledge and skill necessary to ass cybersecurity risks, challenge security plans, discus activities, formulate opinions, and evaluate policy and solution that protect the asset of their organization. The failure to maintain adequate risk oversight can expose companies, officers, and director to liability. Directors owe fiduciary duty to their shareholder and have a significant role in overseeing the risk management of their entities. The failure to exercise appropriate oversight constitutes a breach of the duty of loyalty. A decision about cybersecurity that is negligent constitutes a breach of the duty of care. The Board and the CEO must also ass whether and how to disclose a cyberattack internally and externally to customer and stakeholders. After a successful cyberattack, healthcare provider must provide evidence that they have an adequate and tested cybersecurity program in place that meet international standards, and that they had the knowledge, policy and procedure to prevent and detect a security breach. We provide short, comprehensive briefing on key issue the board need to be informed about in order to exercise professional judgment and adequate risk oversight. Our Briefings for the Board: We offer custom briefing for the Board of Directors and executive management, tailored to the specific need of each legal entity. Our briefing can be short and comprehensive (60 minutes), or longer, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Alternatively, you may choose one of our existing briefings: A. Cybersecurity briefing specific to the healthcare industry. A1. Understanding the cybersecurity challenge in the healthcare industry, for the Board of Directors and executive management of EU and non-EU legal entities. A2. Understanding the European Health Data Space (EHDS), for the Board of Directors and executive management of EU and non-EU legal entities. A3. The NIS 2 Directive a it applies in the healthcare industry, for the Board of Directors and executive management of EU legal entities. A4. The NIS 2 Directive a it applies in the healthcare industry, for the Board of Directors and executive management of non-EU legal entities. A5. Understanding the extraterritorial application of EU law and the equivalence decision of the European Commission. B. Cybersecurity briefing for Board development. B1. An effective cybersecurity culture and the Board of Directors. B2. Social engineering and the Board of Directors. B3. Social engineering: the targeting and victimization of key people through weaponized psychology. B4. State-sponsored but independent hacking groups. The long arm of country that exploit legal pluralism and make the law a strategic instrument. B5. Deception, disinformation, misinformation, propaganda, and the role of the Board. B6. Cyber espionage, intellectual property theft, and the role of the Board. B7. Steganography in business intelligence and intellectual property theft, and the role of the Board. B8. Cyber Proxies and the role of the Board. You can find all information below. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training program - designed and tailored for person working for a specific company or organization (Board members, executive management, risk manager and employee etc.). In all In-House Instructor-Led Training program an instructor from Cyber Risk GmbH that is approved by the Client travel to the location chosen by the Client and lead the class according to the need of the Client and the Contract. b. Online Live Training program - synchronous (real time, not pre-recorded) training program that take place in a live virtual meeting room using platform like Zoom, Webex, Microsoft Teams etc. In all Online Live Training programs, instructor from Cyber Risk GmbH that are approved by the Client tailor the method of delivery (interactive, non-interactive, etc.) to the need of the Client, lead the virtual class, and answer question according to the need of the Client and the Contract. c. Video-Recorded Training program - professional, pre-recorded training program. Instructors from Cyber Risk GmbH that are approved by the Client tailor the training content according to the need of the Client and the Contract, and they record the training content in a professional studio. The training material (including any subsequent updates) is licensed by Cyber Risk GmbH to the Client for training purposes. Clients can incorporate the recorded video to their internal learning system. Video-Recorded Training program include Orientation Video Training and Compliance Video Training programs. A1. Understanding the cybersecurity challenge in the healthcare industry, for the Board of Directors and executive management of EU and non-EU legal entities. Overview In 2020, hospitals, healthcare provider and medical facility were struggling to handle not only the influx of patient suffering from Covid-19, but also a surge of ransomware attacks, a criminal (including state-sponsored groups) exploited the crisis to hit the sector. Month after month, there are many successful cyberattacks on the healthcare industry. Cybersecurity breach that expose sensitive data from thousand of people are especially important, a the privacy rule have become a nightmare for healthcare providers. Social engineering, malware attacks, computer theft, unauthorized access to sensitive information (medical history, treatment of patient etc.) and ransomware, are only some of the challenges. WannaCry ransomware, for example, crippled part of the U.K.s National Health Service for many days. After a successful attack, the damage to brand reputation of the healthcare provider is very important. Healthcare provider must have sufficient defense mechanism in place, and must be able to provide evidence about that. Cybersecurity awareness and training for healthcare practitioners, doctor and personnel is an important step, a even the best system cannot protect the industry, when the person having authorized access do not understand the risk and the modus operandi of the attackers. Cybersecurity wa not historically a major component of healthcare management. Month after month the industry is evolving into an increasingly digital environment, and in today threat landscape, healthcare organization have cybersecurity professional on staff, establish security policy and procedures, follow corporate governance best practices, ensure C-suite support and board involvement in understanding risk and countermeasures, and train all person that have access to sensitive data. A very significant priority is to ensure that each user who ha access to sensitive data is well-trained and able to use data efficiently for the appropriate purpose. Cybersecurity lead to inconvenience by design. Only when user understand the risk and the need for countermeasures, they do not cut corner and they follow the policy and the procedures. Modules of the tailor-made training Introduction. - Important development in the healthcare industry after the new privacy regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). - Understanding the challenges. An overview of some of the attack described below, that are suitable for the objective of the training. At the end of the presentation we will cover one or more of these attack in depth. - March 2016, 21st Century Oncology reveals that 2.2 million patient personal information may have been stolen, including patient names, Social Security numbers, doctor names, diagnosis and treatment information, and insurance information. - September 2020, a ransomware attack to Universal Health Systems caused affected hospital to revert to manual backups, divert ambulances, and reschedule surgeries. - May 2022, hacker targeted Greenlands healthcare system, causing network to crash throughout the island, affecting health services. - January 2022, a hacking group breached several German pharma and tech firms. According to the German government, it wa primarily an attempt to steal intellectual property. - January 2022, hacker breached system belonging to the International Committee of the Red Cross, gaining access to data on more than 500,000 people and disrupting their service around the world. - March 2021, intelligence service targeted the European Medicines Agency, stealing document relating to COVID-19 vaccine and medicines. - December 2020, hacker accessed data related to the COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer during an attack on the European Medicines Agency. - February 2021, attempt to break into the computer system of Pfizer to gain information about vaccine and treatment for the COVID-19. - November 2020, hacker targeted COVID-19 vaccine developer AstraZeneca by posing a recruiter and sending the company employee fake job offer that included malware. - May 2018, attacker used Facebook Messenger to distribute spyware to target in the Middle East, Afghanistan, and India in an attempt to compromise government officials, medical professionals, and others. - April 2019, pharmaceutical company Bayer announced it had prevented an attack targeting sensitive intellectual property. - How could all these attack succeed? Can we prevent challenge like the above? Who is the attacker? - Countries, competitors, criminal organizations, small groups, individuals, employees, insiders, service providers. - Hacktivists and the healthcare industry. - Professional criminal and information warriors. - Cyber attack against doctors, nurses, assistants, therapists, laboratory technicians, and all person having authorized access to system and data. How do the adversary plan and execute the attack? - Step 1 Collecting information about person and systems. - Step 2 Identifying possible target and victims. - Step 3 Evaluation, recruitment, and testing. - Step 4 - Privilege escalation. - Step 5 Identifying important client and VIPs. - Step 6 Critical infrastructure. Employees and their weakness and vulnerabilities. - Employee collusion with external parties. - Blackmailing employees: The art and the science. - Romance fraudsters and webcam blackmail: Which is the risk for the healthcare industry? What must be protected? - Best practice for managers, employees, doctors, nurses, assistants, therapists, laboratory technicians, and all person having authorized access to system and data. - What to do, what to avoid. - From client satisfaction vs. cyber security, to client satisfaction a the result of cyber security. Social Engineering. - Reverse Social Engineering. - Common social engineering technique - 1. Pretexting. - 2. Baiting. - 3. Something for something. - 4. Tailgating. Phishing attacks. - Spear-phishing. - Clone phishing. - Whaling phishing for executives. - Smishing and Vishing Attacks. Cyber Hygiene. - The online analogue of personal hygiene. - Personal devices. - Untrusted storage devices. Case studies. We will discus the mistake and the consequence in one or more of the following case studies: - March 2016, 21st Century Oncology attack. - September 2020, Universal Health Systems attack. - May 2022, Greenlands healthcare system attack. - January 2022, German pharma and tech firm attack. - January 2022, International Committee of the Red Cross attack. - March 2021, European Medicines Agency. - December 2020, COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer during an attack on the European Medicines Agency. - February 2021, attempt to break into the computer system of Pfizer to gain information about vaccine and treatment for the COVID-19. - November 2020, hacker targeted AstraZeneca by posing a recruiters. - May 2018, Facebook Messenger to distribute spyware to medical professionals. - April 2019, Bayer announced it had prevented an attack targeting sensitive intellectual property. - What ha happened? Why ha it happened? Which were the consequences? How could it be avoided? What can we learn from that? Closing remark and questions. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO of firm and organization in the healthcare industry. We will tailor the program to meet specific requirements. You may contact u to discus your needs. Duration 1 hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: A2. Understanding the European Health Data Space (EHDS), for the Board of Directors and executive management of EU and non-EU legal entities. Overview. The European Health Data Space is a health specific ecosystem comprised of rules, common standard and practices, infrastructure and a governance framework that aim at: 1. Empowering individual through increased digital access to and control of their electronic personal health data, at national level and EU-wide. 2. Fostering a single market for electronic health record systems, relevant medical device and high risk AI systems. 3. Providing a trustworthy and efficient set-up for the use of health data for research, innovation, policy-making and regulatory activity (secondary use of data). The European Health Data Space is a key pillar of the European Health Union. It build further on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and the NIS 2 Directive. The European Union is building a strong European Health Union, in which all EU country prepare and respond to health crises, have available, affordable, innovative and adequate medical supplies, and member country work together to improve prevention, treatment and aftercare for diseases. The COVID-19 pandemic show the importance of coordination among European country to protect health, both during a crisis and in normal times. The European Health Union improves EU-level protection, prevention, preparedness and response against human health hazards. Understanding the European Health Data Space (EHDS). 1. Thanks to the EHDS, people will have immediate, and easy access to the data in electronic form, free of charge. They can easily share these data with other health professional in and across Member States to improve health care delivery. Citizens will be in full control of their data and will be able to add information, rectify wrong data, restrict access to others and obtain information on how their data are used and for which purpose. 2. Member States will ensure that patient summaries, ePrescriptions, image and image reports, laboratory results, discharge report are issued and accepted in a common European format. 3. Interoperability and security will become mandatory requirements. Manufacturers of electronic health record system will need to certify compliance with these standards. 4. To ensure that citizens' right are safeguarded, all Member States have to appoint digital health authorities. These authority will participate in the cross-border digital infrastructure (MyHealth@EU) that will support patient to share their data across borders. 5. The EHDS creates a strong legal framework for the use of health data for research, innovation, public health, policy-making and regulatory purposes. Under strict conditions, researchers, innovators, public institution or industry will have access to large amount of high-quality health data, crucial to develop life-saving treatments, vaccine or medical device and ensuring better access to healthcare and more resilient health systems. 6. The access to such data by researchers, company or institution will require a permit from a health data access body, to be set up in all Member States. Access will only be granted if the requested data is used for specific purposes, in closed, secure environment and without revealing the identity of the individual. It is also strictly prohibited to use the data for decisions, which are detrimental to citizen such a designing harmful product or service or increasing an insurance premium. 7. The health data access body will be connected to the new decentralised EU-infrastructure for secondary use (HealthData@EU) which will be set up to support cross-border projects. Modules of the tailor-made training program. - Reasons, and objective of the European Health Data Space (EHDS). - The problem with the uneven implementation and interpretation of the GDPR Regulation, and the considerable legal uncertainties, resulting in barrier to secondary use of electronic health data. - The EHDS a a domain-specific common European data space. - Health-specific challenge to electronic health data access and sharing. - The EHDS a part of the European Health Union. - How the EHDS complement the Data Governance Act (that lay down condition for secondary use of public sector data), and the Data Act (that enhances portability of certain user-generated data, that include health data), and provides more specific rule for the health sector. - How the EHDS interacts with the NIS 2 Directive, that improves cybersecurity risk management and introduces reporting obligation across sector such a energy, transport, health and digital infrastructure. - Subject matter, scope and definition of the EHDS regulation. - The additional right and mechanism designed to complement the natural person right provided under the GDPR in relation to their electronic health data. - The obligation of health professional in relation to electronic health data. - The need for each Member State to have a digital health authority, responsible for monitoring the EHDS right and mechanisms. - The new common infrastructure "MyHealth@EU", that facilitates cross-border exchange of electronic health data. - The mandatory self-certification scheme for EHR systems, and compliance with interoperability and security requirements. - Compatibility of electronic health record for easy transmission of electronic health data between systems. - The obligation of each economic operator of EHR systems. - The labelling of wellness applications, interoperable with EHR systems. - The EU database where certified EHR system and labelled wellness application will be registered. - The secondary use of electronic health data, for research, innovation, policy making, patient safety or regulatory activities. - Data type that can be used for defined purposes. Prohibited purposes. - The implementation of "data altruism" in health. - Duties and obligation of the health data access body, the data holder and the data users. - Responsibilities for the health data access body and data user a joint controller of the processed electronic health data. - The secondary use of electronic health data, the costs, and the transparency of fee calculation. - The secure processing environment, required to access and process electronic health data. - The condition and the information needed in the data request form for obtaining access to electronic health data. - Conditions attached to the issuance of the data permit. - Setting up and fostering cross-border access to electronic health data, so that a data user in one Member State can have access to electronic health data for secondary use from other Member States, without having to request a data permit from all these Member States. - The cross-border infrastructure. - The international access to non-personal data in the EHDS. - The European Health Data Space Board (EHDS Board) that facilitates the cooperation between digital health authority and health data access bodies. - The composition of the EHDS Board, and how it is organised and functioning. - Joint controllership groups, tasked with taking decision related to the cross-border digital infrastructure necessary, both for primary and secondary use of electronic health data. - The European Health Data Space (EHDS) for non-EU healthcare providers. - The other EU directive and regulation that affect healthcare providers. - Closing remarks. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO of firm and organization in the healthcare industry. We will tailor the program to meet specific requirements. You may contact u to discus your needs. Duration 1 hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: A3. The NIS 2 Directive a it applies in the healthcare industry, for the Board of Directors and executive management of EU legal entities. Overview The NIS 2 Directive replaces and repeal the NIS Directive (Directive 2016/1148/EC). NIS 2 will improve cybersecurity risk management and will introduce reporting obligation across sector such a energy, transport, health and digital infrastructure. Important obligations: According to Article 20 (Governance), the management body of essential and important entity must approve the cybersecurity risk-management measure taken by those entities, oversee it implementation and "can be held liable for infringements." According to Article 20, Member States shall ensure that the "members of the management body of essential and important entity are required to follow training," and shall encourage essential and important entity to offer similar training to their employee on a regular basis, in order that they gain sufficient knowledge and skill to enable them to identify risk and ass cybersecurity risk-management practice and their impact on the service provided by the entity. According to Article 21 (Cybersecurity risk-management measures), essential and important entity must take appropriate and proportionate technical, operational and organisational measure to manage the risk posed to the security of network and information system which those entity use for their operation or for the provision of their services, and to prevent or minimise the impact of incident on recipient of their service and on other services. Taking into account the "state-of-the-art" and, where applicable, relevant European and international standards, a well a the cost of implementation, the measure referred shall ensure a level of security of network and information system appropriate to the risk posed. When assessing the proportionality of those measures, due account shall be taken of the degree of the entity exposure to risks, the entity size and the likelihood of occurrence of incident and their severity, including their societal and economic impact. The measure shall be based on an "all-hazards approach" that aim to protect network and information system and the physical environment of those system from incidents, and shall include "at least" the following: (a) policy on risk analysis and information system security; (b) incident handling; (c) business continuity, such a backup management and disaster recovery, and crisis management; (d) supply chain security, including security-related aspect concerning the relationship between each entity and it direct supplier or service providers; (e) security in network and information system acquisition, development and maintenance, including vulnerability handling and disclosure; (f) policy and procedure to ass the effectiveness of cybersecurity risk-management measures; (g) basic cyber hygiene practice and cybersecurity training; (h) policy and procedure regarding the use of cryptography and, where appropriate, encryption; (i) human resource security, access control policy and asset management; (j) the use of multi-factor authentication or continuous authentication solutions, secured voice, video and text communication and secured emergency communication system within the entity, where appropriate. Course Synopsis - Are you sure we must comply with the NIS 2 Directive? Where can we find this information? - Are we an essential or important entity? Why? - What is this "high common level of cybersecurity across the EU"? - The new competent authority - the Cooperation Group, the cyber crisis management authorities, the single point of contact on cybersecurity, and the Computer Security Incident Response Teams (CSIRTs). - The European cyber crisis liaison organisation network (EU-CyCLONe) for large-scale cybersecurity incident and crises. - The new cybersecurity risk management measure and reporting obligations. - The new cybersecurity information sharing obligations. - Cybersecurity risk management measure and reporting obligations. - Governance. - The management body of essential and important entity must approve the cybersecurity risk-management measures. - The management body of essential and important entity are required to follow training, and encourage essential and important entity to offer similar training to their employees. - Cybersecurity risk-management measures. - Reporting obligations. - Jurisdiction and territoriality. - Entities are considered to fall under the jurisdiction of the Member State in which they are established. - Entities are considered to have their main establishment in the Union in the Member State where the decision related to the cybersecurity risk-management measure are predominantly taken. - Entities not established in the EU, but offer service within the EU, must designate a representative in the EU. - The role and the task of the representative. - Cybersecurity information-sharing arrangements. - General aspect concerning supervision and enforcement. - What is next: Delegated and Implementing Acts. - Review. - Transposition. - Master plan and list of immediate actions, for firm established in the EU. - Other new EU directive and regulation that introduce compliance challenge to EU firms: The European Cyber Resilience Act, the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) etc. - Closing remarks. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO of firm and organization in the healthcare industry. We will tailor the program to meet specific requirements. You may contact u to discus your needs. Duration 1 hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: A4. The NIS 2 Directive a it applies in the healthcare industry, for the Board of Directors and executive management of non-EU legal entities. Overview Under Article 26 of the NIS 2 Directive (Jurisdiction and territoriality), if an entity is not established in the EU, but offer service within the EU, it shall designate a representative in the EU. The representative shall be established in one of those Member States where the service are offered. Such an entity shall be considered to fall under the jurisdiction of the Member State where the representative is established. In the absence of a representative, any Member State in which the entity provides service may take legal action against the entity for the infringement of this Directive. Course Synopsis - What is extraterritoriality? - Extraterritorial application of EU law. - Risk and compliance management challenge for firm established in non-EU countries. - Are you sure we must comply with the NIS 2 Directive? Where can we find this information? - Are we an essential or important entity in the EU? We are not established in the EU, and we are regulated in our country. - Jurisdiction and territoriality. - Entities are considered to fall under the jurisdiction of the Member State in which they are established. - Entities are considered to have their main establishment in the Union in the Member State where the decision related to the cybersecurity risk-management measure are predominantly taken. - Entities not established in the EU, but offer service within the EU, must designate a representative in the EU. - The task of the representative. - The "high common level of cybersecurity across the Union". - The new cybersecurity risk-management measure and reporting obligations. - The new cybersecurity information sharing obligations. - The new EU competent authority and single point of contact. - The new European cyber crisis liaison organisation network (EU-CyCLONe) for large-scale cybersecurity incident and crises. - International cooperation. - Cybersecurity risk management measure and reporting obligations. - Governance. - The management body of essential and important entity approve the cybersecurity risk-management measures. - The management body of essential and important entity are required to follow training, and encourage essential and important entity to offer similar training to their employees. - Cybersecurity risk-management measures. - Reporting obligations. - General aspect concerning supervision and enforcement. - Supervisory and enforcement measure in relation to essential entities. - Supervisory and enforcement measure in relation to important entities. - General condition for imposing administrative fine on essential and important entities. - Infringements entailing a personal data breach. - Penalties. - What is next - Delegated and Implementing Acts. - Review. - Transposition. - Master plan and list of immediate actions, for firm established in non-EU countries. - Other new EU directive and regulation that introduce compliance challenge to EU and non-EU firms: The European Cyber Resilience Act, the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) etc. - Closing remarks. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO of firm and organizations. Duration 1 hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. We always tailor the program to the need of each client. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: A5. Understanding the extraterritorial application of EU law and the equivalence decision of the European Commission. Course Synopsis The term extraterritoriality and extraterritorial jurisdiction refer to the competence of a country to extend it legal power beyond it territorial boundaries, and to make, apply and enforce rule of conduct in respect of persons, property or event beyond it territory. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for example, applies to foreign auditor and foreign company whose security are listed in a US stock exchange. Extraterritorial application of EU law is the application of EU provision outside the territory of the EU, resulting from EU unilateral legislative and regulatory action. For example, according to EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), non-EU data controller and processor in any country, must comply with the GDPR obligations, if they offer good or service to individual in the EU. Anu Bradford, Professor of Law in Columbia Law School, is the author of the book The Brussels Effect: How the European Union Rules the World (2020), that wa named one of the best book of 2020 by Foreign Affairs. In 2012, she introduced the concept of the Brussels Effect, that describes Europes unilateral power to regulate global markets. Anu Bradford explains why most global corporation choose to adopt the European laws, regulation and standard in the design and operation of their product and services. The EU standard are generally stricter, and in most cases, when you comply with EU rules, you comply with law and regulation around the world. Even when this approach is more costly, global corporation prefer to have an enterprise-wide, single mode of production and operations, and to market their good and service globally. Following the doctrine "you comply with EU rules, you comply around the world", global corporation and service provider need professional that understand the EU laws, regulations, standard and guidelines. When the European Commission determines that the regulatory or supervisory regime of a non-EU country is equivalent to the corresponding EU framework: - allows authority in the EU to rely on supervised entities' compliance with equivalent rule in a non-EU country, - reduces or eliminates overlap in compliance requirement for both EU and non-EU entities, - make service and product of non-EU company accepted in the EU, - allows third-country firm to provide service without establishment in the EU single-market. We will discus what happens when the European Commission determines that the regulatory or supervisory regime of a non-EU country is not equivalent to the corresponding EU framework, or when the European Commission ha not yet determined if the regulatory or supervisory regime of a non-EU country is equivalent. We can understand better equivalence decision from the experience we have with the Accounting Directive, the Audit Directive, the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR), the Credit Rating Agencies Regulation, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II), the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR), the Prospectus Directive, the Solvency II Directive and the Transparency Directive. After this presentation, the Board and executive management will have a clear understanding or what is mandatory and what is "nice to have", and the consequence of non-compliance. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO of firm and organizations. Duration 1 hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. We always tailor the program to the need of each client. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B1. An effective cybersecurity culture and the Board of Directors. Overview The Board of Directors, a the culture owner, must ensure that the beliefs, the perceptions, the attitudes, the assumptions, and the norm regarding cybersecurity are in line with the mission and the vision of their organization. They must also ensure that information security consideration are an integral part of every employee and manager job, habits, and conduct. The majority of data breach within organisation are the result of human actors. Cybersecurity is not only a technical challenge. As long a manager and employee can provide access to system and data, cybersecurity depends on them too. Employees that have access to critical asset of an organization, become targets. Those that have access to technology and organizational asset are also responsible for the protection of those assets. Are they fit and proper to handle this responsibility? Do they have the awareness and skill necessary to protect themselves and their organisation? The economic cost of cyberattacks and breach are more important than many director and manager believe. There are direct and indirect costs, that include downtime of services, compromise of confidential information, fines, decreased profit through reputational damage, supervisory scrutiny etc. We must tailor the program, to include the organization cybersecurity compliance obligation and their implication across all relevant jurisdictions, the specific threat actor the organization faces, and how is the organization more likely to be breached. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Terms and conditions. You may visit: B2. Social engineering and the Board of Directors Overview Cybersecurity is not only a technical challenge. It is also a behavioral challenge. As long a manager and employee can provide access to system and data, cybersecurity depends on them too. Employees that have access to critical asset of an organization, become targets. Those that have access to technology and organizational asset are also responsible for the protection of those assets. Are they fit and proper to handle this responsibility? Do they have the awareness and skill necessary to protect themselves and their organisation? The Board and the CEO are high value targets, so they are high risk target too. For them, standard security awareness program are not going to suffice. The way they are being targeted is anything but standard. They are the recipient of the most sophisticated, tailored attacks, including state-sponsored attacks. These are attack that are often well planned, well crafted, and employ advanced psychological technique able to sway a target towards a desired (compromising) behavior without raising any alarms. Are the Board member and the CEO equipped with the knowledge necessary to defend the organization and to protect themselves from well-funded, planned, and sophisticated attacks? Course Synopsis Board member and the CEO must understand better the social engineering modus operandi. We will cover: The Social Engineering Kill-chain. 1. Reconnaissance: The research phase used to identify and select targets. 2. Targeting: Who is the most vulnerable person to attack? What is the biggest vulnerability of the target? 3. Pretexting: The attacker cover story. 4. Establishing trust with the target. 5. Manipulating, exploiting, and victimizing. 6. Case studies. Typical Social Engineering Attacks from a Distance. 1. Phishing Emails. 2. Spear Phishing. 3. Vishing. 4. Smishing. 5. Watering Holes. 6. Spoofing. 7. Baiting. 8. Whaling phishing. 9. Emotional trigger that will make you want to respond - but you shouldnt. 10. Case studies. 11. Defence. Is your social medium content making you a target? 1. Social medium is a primary source of information for attackers. 2. How your social medium content can be used against you. 3. Cybersecurity hygiene advice for social media. 4. Attacks through social media. 5. Examples. 6. Defense. In- Person attack and manipulation techniques. 1. USB traps. 2. Emotional elicitation & exploitation. 3. Time pressure. 4. Authority. 5. Likeability. 6. Intimidation. 7. Reciprocity. 8. Impersonation. 9. Pity & Helpfulness. 10. Commitment & Consistency. 11. Reverse Social Engineering. 12. Examples & Case Studies. 13. Defence. Physical security. 1. Why social engineer will try to enter your establishment. 2. What asset can be stolen/ compromised? 3. Gaining unauthorized access to physical spaces. 4. Tailgating and bypassing physical security measures. 5. Locked doe NOT mean secure - lockpicking capabilities. 6. Defence. Identifying a social engineering attack. 1. Identifying manipulation and deceit. 2. Emotional triggers, emotional exploitation & what to do about it. 3. Verifying intention - subtly. 4. Case studies. 5. Responding to and deterring a social engineering attack. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Christina Lekati, psychologist, social engineering training expert. To learn about her you may visit: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B3. Social engineering: the targeting and victimization of key people through weaponized psychology Overview Threat actor are not interested in attacking everyone and anyone in an organization. High value individual are the one with elevated access to information, assets, and systems. Board member and the C-Suite become by default high-risk target for cyberattacks. The most effective and frequent method to attack high value individual is weaponized psychology. Board member and C-Level executive must learn the answer to the following questions: - Which is the advanced psychological game that threat actor use to compromise their targets? - How do they find their target vulnerabilities? - What can we do to avoid being exploited from a determined adversary with a carefully planned attack? High-value individual must understand the threat, to protect themselves and their organisation from cyber attacks, industrial espionage, competitors, and other threat actor lurking online and offline. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Christina Lekati, psychologist, social engineering training expert. To learn about her you may visit: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B4. State-sponsored but independent hacking groups. The long arm of country that exploit legal pluralism and make the law a strategic instrument Overview According to Article 51 of the U.N. Charter: Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defense if an armed attack occurs against a Member of the United Nations, until the Security Council ha taken measure necessary to maintain international peace and security. But is a cyber-attack comparable to an armed attack? There is no international consensus on a precise definition of a use of force, in or out of cyberspace. Nations assert different definition and apply different threshold for what constitutes a use of force. For example, if cyber operation cause effect that, if caused by traditional physical means, would be regarded a a use of force under jus ad bellum, then such cyber operation would likely also be regarded a a use of force. Important weakness of international law include the assumption that it is possible to isolate military and civilian target with sufficient clarity, and to distinguish a tangible military objective to be attained from an attack. More than 20 country have announced their intent to use offensive cyber capabilities, in line with Article 2(4) and Article 51 of the United Nations (UN) Charter. Unfortunately, these capability will not help when the attacker are State-sponsored groups, and the States supporting them, claim that not only they are not involved, but also that their adversary (the victims) have fabricated evidence about it. This is a very effective disinformation operation. Adversaries have already successfully exploited weakness of non-authoritarian societies, especially the political and legal interpretation of fact from different political parties. It is difficult to use offensive cyber capability in line with democratic principle and international law, a it is almost impossible to distinguish with absolute certainty between attack from States and attack from State-sponsored independent groups. Even when intelligence service know that an attack come from a State that us a State-sponsored independent group, they cannot disclose the information and the evidence that support their assessment, a disclosure about technical and physical intelligence capability and initiative can undermine current and future operations. This is the second attribution problem they know but they cannot disclose what they know. As an example, we will discus the data breach at the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OPM system had information related to the background investigation of current, former, and prospective federal government employees, U.S. military personnel, and those for whom a federal background investigation wa conducted. The attacker now have access to information about federal employees, federal retirees, and former federal employees. They have access to military records, veterans' status information, addresses, date of birth, job and pay history, health insurance and life insurance information, pension information, data on age, gender, race, even fingerprints. But why? Aldrich Ames, a former intelligence officer turned mole, ha said: Espionage, for the most part, involves finding a person who know something or ha something that you can induce them secretly to give to you. That almost always involves a betrayal of trust. Finding this person is much easier, if you have data easily converted to intelligence, like the data stolen from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM). This leak is a direct risk for the critical infrastructure. There are question to be answered, and decision to be made, not only about tactic and strategy, but also political and legal interpretation. We tailor the program to meet specific requirements. You may contact u to discus your needs. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B5. Deception, disinformation, misinformation, propaganda, and the role of the Board. Overview Misinformation is incorrect or misleading information. Disinformation is false information, deliberately and often covertly spread, in order to influence public opinion, or obscure the truth. Propaganda is a broader and older term. Propaganda us disinformation a a method. While the French philosopher Jacques Driencourt asserted that everything is propaganda, the term is most often associated with political persuasion and psychological warfare. Psychological warfare is the use of propaganda against an enemy (or even a friend that could become an enemy in the future), with the intent to break his will to fight or resist, or to render him favorably disposed to one's position. In deception (according to Bell and Whaley), someone is showing the false and hiding the real. Hiding the real is divided into masking, repackaging, and dazzling, while showing the fake is divided into mimicking, inventing, and decoying. People are remarkably bad at detecting deception and disinformation. They often trust what others say, and usually they are right to do so. This is called the truth bias. People also tend to believe something when it is repeated. They tend to believe something they learn for the first time, and subsequent rebuttal may reinforce the original information, rather than dissipate it. Humans have an unconscious preference for thing they associate with themselves, and they are more likely to believe message from user they perceive a similar to themselves. They believe that source are credible if other people consider them credible. They trust fake user profile with image and background information they like. Citizens must understand that million of fake account follow thousand of real and fake users, creating the perception of a large following. This large following enhances perceived credibility, and attracts more human followers, creating a positive feedback cycle. People are more likely to believe others who are in position of power. Fake account have false credentials, like false affiliation with government agencies, corporations, activists, and political parties, to boost credibility. Freedom of information and expression are of paramount importance in many cultures. The more freedom of information we have, the better. But the more information we have, the more difficult becomes to understand what is right and what is wrong. The right of expression and the freedom of information can be used against the citizens. We often have the weaponization of information. The Internet and the social medium are key game-changers in exploiting right and freedoms. In the past, a secret service should work hard to get disinformation in the press. Today, the Internet and the social medium give the opportunity for spreading limitless fake photos, reports, and "opinions". Many secret service wage online war using Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Google+, Instagram, Pinterest, Viber etc. Only imagination is the limit. Social medium platforms, autonomous agents, and big data are directed towards the manipulation of public opinion. Social medium bot (computer program mimicking human behaviour and conversations, using artificial intelligence) allow for massive amplification of political views, manufacture trends, game hashtags, add content, spam opposition, attack journalist and person that tell the truth. In the hand of State-sponsored group these automated tool can be used to both boost and silence communication and organization among citizens. Over 10 percent of content across social medium websites, and 62 percent of all web traffic, is generated by bots, not humans. Over 45 million Twitter account are bots, according to researcher at the University of Southern California. Machine-driven communication tool (MADCOMs) use cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence based persuasive techniques. These tool spread information, messages, and idea online, for influence, propaganda, counter-messaging, disinformation, espionage, intimidation. They use human-like speech to dominate the information-space and capture the attention of citizens. Artificial intelligence (AI) technology enable computer to simulate cognitive processes, such a element of human thinking. Machines can make decisions, perceive data or the environment, and act to satisfy objectives. The rule of the people, by the people, and for the people, requires citizen that can make decision in area they do not always understand. When citizen understand the online environment, they will be way more prepared to protect their families, their working environment, and their country. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B6. Cyber espionage, intellectual property theft, and the role of the Board. Overview Intelligence is the collection of information that have military, political, or economic value. Intelligence refers to both: - information that is collected by clandestine means, - information available through conventional means. Espionage is a set of intelligence gathering methods. The Oxfords English Dictionary defines espionage a the practice of spying or of using spies, typically by governments, to obtain political and military information. The Merriam-Webster's Dictionary ha a slightly different opinion. Espionage is the practice of spying or using spies, to obtain information about the plan and activity especially of a foreign government or a competing company. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) defines economic espionage a "the act of knowingly targeting or acquiring trade secret to benefit any foreign government, foreign instrumentality, or foreign agent." According to the 2019 Situation Report of the Swiss Federal Intelligence Service (FIS): "Espionage is driven by a variety of different motif and ha more than one aim. For example, state strive, using information obtained by their intelligence services, to gain a fuller picture of the situation in order to improve the effectiveness of their actions. It can furthermore be observed that information is increasingly being procured with the aim of influencing (in so-called influence operations) or damaging the action of rivals. Both can be achieved through the selective publication of information. The aim of such activity is often to weaken the cohesion of international group or institution and thereby to restrict their ability to act." Cyber is a prefix used to describe new thing that are now possible a a result of the spread of computers, systems, and devices, that are interconnected. It relates to data processing, data transfer, or information stored in systems. With the word cyber we also refer to anything relating to computers, systems, and devices, especially the internet. The prefix cyber ha been added to a wide range of words, to describe new flavor of existing concepts, or new approach to existing procedures. Intelligence gathering involves human intelligence (HUMINT - information collected and provided by human sources), signal intelligence (SIGINT - information collected by interception of signals), imagery intelligence (IMINT), measurement and signature intelligence (MASINT), geospatial intelligence (GEOINT), open-source intelligence (OSINT), financial intelligence (FININT), etc. HUMINT is the oldest form of intelligence gathering. Cyber-HUMINT refers to the strategy and practice used in cyberspace, in order to collect intelligence while attacking the human factor. Cyber-HUMINT start with traditional human intelligence process (recruitment, training, intelligence gathering, deception etc.), combined with social engineering strategy and practices. Cyber espionage includes: - unauthorized access to system or device to obtain information, - social engineering to the person that have authorized access to system or devices, to obtain information. Cyber espionage involves cyber attack to obtain political, commercial, and military information. Cyber espionage and traditional espionage have similar or the same end goals. Cyber espionage exploit the anonymity, global reach, scattered nature, the interconnectedness of information networks, the deception opportunity that offer plausible deniability. Economic and industrial espionage, including cyber espionage, represents a significant threat to a country prosperity, security, and competitive advantage. Cyberspace is a preferred operational domain for many threat actors, including countries, state sponsored groups, the organized crime, and individuals. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) introduce new vulnerabilities. Cyber economic espionage is the targeting and theft of trade secret and intellectual property. It is usually much larger in scale and scope, and it is a major drain on competitive advantage and market share. According to Burton (2015), cyber threat can be classified into four main categories: Cybercrime, cyber espionage, cyberterrorism, and cyber warfare. Cybercrime is crime enabled by or that target computers. Criminal activity can be carried out by individual or group who have diverse goal such a financial gain, identity theft, and damaging property. Usually cybercrime is financially motivated. Cyber espionage activity are conducted by state-sponsored cyber attacker "for the purpose of providing knowledge to the state to obtain political, commercial, and military gain" (Burton, 2015). According to Denning, cyberterrorism is the convergence of cyberspace and terrorism" that cover politically motivated hacking and operation intended to cause grave harm such a loss of life or severe economic damage. Cyber Warfare involves the use of computer and system to target an enemy information systems. The use of cyber power in military operation is an important force multiplier. Since the armed force are highly dependent on information technology and computer networks, disruption of these system would provide great advantages. Cyberspace is regarded a the fifth domain of warfare after land, sea, air, and space. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg announced in June 2016 that the 28-member alliance ha agreed to declare cyber an operational domain, much a the sea, air and land are. According to the 2019 Situation Report of the Swiss Federal Intelligence Service (FIS): "Espionage operation which have come to light reveal that cyber tool and other communication reconnaissance instrument are being used in parallel and in interaction with human sources. Depending on the objective, information is also being procured exclusively via cyberspace. The latter ha gained in importance insofar a the use of cyber-based information-gathering tool ha proven successful for many actors. Cyber espionage is difficult to detect, the perpetrator can hardly be successfully prosecuted, a the purported country of origin doe of course not help to elucidate the affair and determination by the mean of intelligence of the origin of the cyber-attack (attribution) can simply be denied based on the lack of provability." A major challenge today is the lack of awareness and training. Many organization and company continue to believe that cyber security is a technical, not a strategic discipline. They believe that cyber security involves the protection of system from threat like unauthorized access, not the awareness and training of person that have authorized access to system and information. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B7. Steganography in business intelligence and intellectual property theft, and the role of the Board. Overview Steganography is the art and the science of concealing a message, image, or file within another message, image, or file, and communicating in a way that hide the existence of the message and the communication. For example, a message can be hidden inside a graphic image file, an audio file, or other file format, in a way that it is difficult for steganography expert and impossible for all the others to find it. The word steganography come from the Greek word (covered or concealed) and (write). Payload is the data that ha been hidden, and carrier is whatever (like a file) hide the payload. Steganography is different from cryptography. Cryptography is the art of secret writing, it make a message unreadable by a third party, but it doe not hide the existence of the message. Steganography is about concealing the message. It is relatively easy to identify an encrypted file, but it is usually not so easy to decrypt it. The analyst might be able to identify the encryption method by examining the file header, identifying encryption program installed on the system, or finding encryption key (which are often stored on other media). With steganography, everything is more complex and difficult. The analyst must first find the file that hide another encrypted file (looking for multiple version of the same image, identifying the presence of grayscale images, searching metadata and registries, using histograms, and using hash set to search for known steganography software), then the analyst might be able to extract the embedded data, and they still have to find the encryption key (as the hidden file is usually encrypted too). Steganography can be very useful. Using digital watermarking, an author can embed a hidden message in a file so that ownership of the intellectual property can be proved. Artists can post artwork on a website, and if others claim the ownership of the work, the artist can prove ownership a they can recover the watermark. Steganography ha also a number of nefarious applications. Criminals can easier hide record of illegal activity and financial crimes, and terrorist can easier exchange messages. Steganalysis is the analysis of steganography, and involves the detection of hidden data, the extraction of the hidden message, and sometimes the alteration of the hidden message so that the recipient cannot extract it, or receive a different message. Many steganalysis tool are signature-based (similar to antivirus and intrusion detection systems). There are also anomaly-based steganalysis systems, more flexible and better for new steganography techniques. New complex steganography method continue to emerge. Spread-spectrum steganography method are similar to spread-spectrum radio transmission (where the signal is spread across a wide-frequency spectrum rather than focused on a single frequency, in an effort to make detection and jamming more difficult). In spread-spectrum steganography, small distortion to image are le detectable in bright colors, so the hidden message is stored in bright color only, not each color. You can also check the Biosteganography link at the top of the webpage. Case study, steganography used in espionage, organized crime, and terrorism. Consider the following scenario. Every Friday afternoon (for the target's time zone) a member of a foreign state-sponsored group put an item for sale on eBay, and post a photograph of the item. The item for sale is real, and it will be sold according to the rule of eBay. Bids are accepted, money is collected, and item are delivered. The photograph of the item hide a message, but this is just one from so many million of photo that can be found at eBay. Anybody in the world can download the photo, but only member of the same foreign state-sponsored group know how to extract the encrypted message and how to decrypt it. What can we do? Corporate security and acceptable use policies, that detail what employee are authorized to do within the corporate environment, can always help and must be in the first line of defense. Awareness training for all employees, that explains the reason they have to respect policy and includes the modus operandi and risk of steganography attack is of paramount importance. User policy explain what is prohibited, and they provide an organization with the legal mean to punish or prosecute violators. We must clearly explain in policy that every line of code or piece of software that is not approved, is strictly prohibited. In this way, we will avoid most of the following: - anti-forensics tool (used to thwart digital forensic investigations, like drive wiping tools, cache and history erasers, file property and time alternators, VPNs, e-mail, and chat log erasers), - encryption or steganography tool (there are over 1,000 free steganography tool online, most of them very dangerous for everybody that downloads the "free" tool, or even visit these websites. In some website we read: "This application doe not require installation. You can copy the program file to an external data device, so a to run it on any computer you can get your hand on, with just a click of the button. It is not adding new item to the Windows registry or hard drive without your approval, a installers usually do, and it will not leave any trace behind"), - exploit kit (programs designed to exploit a known vulnerability in a piece of software or online resource. They are often distributed a a package, which will enable attacker with limited knowledge to launch a sophisticated attacks), - toolkits (that enable unsophisticated user to construct new malware applications, sometimes not detectable by standard signature-based virus scanning engines), - keyloggers (designed to covertly monitor keystroke on a device. Once a device ha been compromised, all keystrokes, including passwords, can be monitored, and recorded), - password cracking tool (designed to break password-protected file and accounts), - sniffer (that capture and analyze network traffic. Many protocols, including FTP and chat, are not encrypted. These program obtain cleartext information, and also collect packet that can be used to crack network password and find protected files, servers, and user accounts), - spyware tool (for industrial espionage, unauthorized monitoring, and collection of proprietary data), - piracy tool (that allow user to bypass copyright protection in various form of media, making illegal copies, and saving to a storage medium). There are unlimited method of steganography, only imagination is the limit. We usually learn about encrypted message hidden in large file (images, sound files, video etc.), and nothing more. Although steganography is usually considered a technical problem, it is not. It is also a business intelligence (or just intelligence) problem. If we do not know where to look for hidden messages, it is very unlikely to find them. Only the cooperation of the public and the private sector can protect against these security threats. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: B8. Cyber Proxies and the role of the Board. Overview The word proxy is interesting. In Latin, procuro mean manage, administer - from pro (on behalf of) and curo (I care for). Today a proxy is a person or entity who is authorized to act on behalf of another person or entity. Countries expand their global intelligence footprint to better support their growing political, economic, and security interest around the world, increasingly challenging existing alliance and partnerships. They employ an array of tools, especially influence campaigns, to advance their interest or undermine the interest of other countries. They turn a power vacuum into an opportunity. Countries use proxy (state-sponsored groups, organizations, organized crime, etc.) a a way to accomplish national objective while limiting cost, reducing the risk of direct conflict, and maintaining plausible deniability. With plausible deniability, even if the target country is able to attribute an attack to an actor, it is unable to provide evidence that a link exists between the actor and the country that sponsor the attack. According to Tim Maurer, proxy is an intermediary that conduct or directly contributes to an offensive cyber operation that is enabled knowingly, actively or passively, by a beneficiary who gain advantage from it effect. Cyber proxy are valuable actor in political warfare. This is the employment of military, intelligence, diplomatic, financial, and other means, short of conventional war, to achieve national objectives. It encompasses the exploitation of computer network and platforms, electronic warfare, psychological operations, and information operations. For some countries, the main battlespace is the mind. With information and psychological warfare, these country can morally and psychologically depress the enemy armed force personnel and civil population. In 2019, the United States spent $732 billion on defense, compared to Russias $65.1 billion. It is obvious that Russia and other country in similar position will try to find le expensive mean to counter big, expensive U.S. weapon and systems. Cyber espionage is especially economical when country conduct activity through proxies. Countries actively create fertile ground for malicious activity to occur. Cyber actor (which include cyber criminals, hacktivists, and political, economic and religious groups) are continually operating from within the sphere of influence of the sponsoring country with the understanding that their illegal activity will be tolerated, a soon a they will also support the objective of the sponsoring country. As John Carlin, former Assistant U.S. Attorney General for National Security ha stated, what youre seeing is the world most sophisticated intelligence operation when it come to cyber espionage, using the criminal group for their intelligence ends, and protecting them from law enforcement. Cyber threat posed by cyber proxy must be managed, and the law must be changed in this area. Publicly attributing malicious cyber activity to a country in a timely manner and holding that country accountable is difficult, but necessary. If international law is unable to solve these problems, national policy will ignore international law and confront cyber adversary through rapid attribution and offensive countermeasures, to deter future aggression. COVID-19 and cyber proxy The COVID-19 pandemic ha disrupted life worldwide, with far-reaching effect that extend well beyond global health to the economic, political, and security spheres. The economic and political implication of the pandemic will ripple through the world for years. It is raising geopolitical tensions, and many country try to take advantage of the situation and increase their influence. The economic fallout from the pandemic is likely to create or worsen instability in many countries, a people face challenge that include economic downturns, job losses, and disrupted supply chains. Some hard-hit developing country are experiencing financial and humanitarian crises, increasing the risk of surge in migration, collapsed governments, or internal conflict. The COVID-19 pandemic is prompting shift in security priority for country around the world. As the public and the private sector try to cut budgets, gap are emerging in training and risk management. These gap are likely to grow. Cyber proxy consider the Covid-19 pandemic a major opportunity to spread a cyber pandemic and infodemics (disinformation campaign that use the pandemic a a vector). They can influence citizen around the world to question the policy in many country and divide the population. They can also attack the health care sector and the institution involved in the management of the crisis, to make government weaker in responding to the crisis. Cyber proxy love the new "work from home" policies, and the exponential digitalization of our life for work, education, communication and entertainment. Moving activity online creates new opportunity for malicious actors. Target Audience The program is beneficial to the Board of Directors and the CEO. Duration One hour to half day, depending on the needs, the content of the program and the case studies. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training, b. Online Live Training, or c. Video-Recorded Training. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: Toggle navigation NIS 2 Training for the Healthcare Industry Overview The NIS 2 Directive of the European Union entered into force the 16th of January, 2023. In Article 1 (subject matter of the NIS 2 Directive), we learn that NIS 2 lay down cybersecurity risk management measure and reporting obligation for entity of a type referred to in Annex I or II. In Annex I (Sectors of High Criticality), we find that "Healthcare providers", "EU reference laboratories", "Entities carrying out research and development activity of medicinal products", "Entities manufacturing basic pharmaceutical product and pharmaceutical preparations", and "Entities manufacturing medical device considered to be critical during a public health emergency" are in the scope of the NIS 2 Directive. More about the scope of the NIS 2 Directive In Annex I, we find: Sector: Health. - Healthcare providers. Note: Healthcare provider mean any natural or legal person or any other entity legally providing healthcare on the territory of a Member State. - EU reference laboratories. Note: In the area of public health or of the national prevention, preparedness and response plans, the European Commission designates EU reference laboratory to provide support to national reference laboratories. The EU reference laboratory shall be responsible for coordinating the network of national reference laboratories, in particular, in the following areas: (a) reference diagnostics, including test protocols; (b) reference material resources; (c) external quality assessments; (d) scientific advice and technical assistance; (e) collaboration and research; (f) monitoring, alert notification and support in outbreak response, including to emerging communicable disease and pathogenic bacteria and viruses; (g) training. - Entities carrying out research and development activity of medicinal products. - Entities manufacturing basic pharmaceutical product and pharmaceutical preparation referred to in section C division 21 of NACE Rev. 2. - Entities manufacturing medical device considered to be critical during a public health emergency (public health emergency critical device list). Important note: This is an overview, not a detailed list of activities. Depending on their product or services, and where their product or service belong in NACE (the statistical classification of economic activity in the European Union), entity must carefully consider if they must comply with the NIS 2 Directive or not. For example, in the scope of the NIS 2 Directive, we have the activity "entities manufacturing basic pharmaceutical product and pharmaceutical preparation referred to in section C division 21 of NACE Rev. 2". We have to visit section C division 21 of NACE Rev. 2, and find: 21.1 - Manufacture of basic pharmaceutical products. This class includes manufacture of medicinal active substance to be used for their pharmacological property in the manufacture of medicaments: antibiotics, basic vitamins, salicylic and O-acetylsalicylic acid etc., processing of blood. 21.2 - Manufacture of pharmaceutical preparations. This class includes manufacture of medicaments: . antiserum and other blood fraction . vaccine . diverse medicaments, including homeopathic preparation - manufacture of chemical contraceptive product for external use and hormonal contraceptive medicament - manufacture of medical diagnostic preparations, including pregnancy test - manufacture of radioactive in-vivo diagnostic substance - manufacture of biotech pharmaceuticals. This class excludes: - manufacture of herb infusion (mint, vervain, chamomile etc.), see 10.83 - manufacture of dental filling and dental cement, see 32.50 - manufacture of bone reconstruction cements, see 32.50 - manufacture of surgical drapes, see 32.50 - wholesale of pharmaceuticals, see 46.46 - retail sale of pharmaceuticals, see 47.73 - research and development for pharmaceutical and biotech pharmaceuticals, see 72.1 - packaging of pharmaceuticals, see 82.92. What doe it mean for entity in the scope of the NIS 2 Directive? According to Article 20 (Governance), the management body of essential and important entity must approve the cybersecurity risk-management measure taken by those entities, oversee it implementation, and can be held liable for infringements. According to Article 20, Member States shall ensure that the member of the management body of essential and important entity are required to follow training, and shall encourage essential and important entity to offer similar training to their employee on a regular basis, in order that they gain sufficient knowledge and skill to enable them to identify risk and ass cybersecurity risk-management practice and their impact on the service provided by the entity. According to Article 21 (Cybersecurity risk-management measures), essential and important entity must take appropriate and proportionate technical, operational and organisational measure to manage the risk posed to the security of network and information system which those entity use for their operation or for the provision of their services, and to prevent or minimise the impact of incident on recipient of their service and on other services. Taking into account the "state-of-the-art" and, where applicable, relevant European and international standards, a well a the cost of implementation, the measure referred shall ensure a level of security of network and information system appropriate to the risk posed. When assessing the proportionality of those measures, due account shall be taken of the degree of the entity exposure to risks, the entity size and the likelihood of occurrence of incident and their severity, including their societal and economic impact. The measure shall be based on an "all-hazards approach" that aim to protect network and information system and the physical environment of those system from incidents, and shall include "at least" the following: (a) policy on risk analysis and information system security; (b) incident handling; (c) business continuity, such a backup management and disaster recovery, and crisis management; (d) supply chain security, including security-related aspect concerning the relationship between each entity and it direct supplier or service providers; (e) security in network and information system acquisition, development and maintenance, including vulnerability handling and disclosure; (f) policy and procedure to ass the effectiveness of cybersecurity risk-management measures; (g) basic cyber hygiene practice and cybersecurity training; (h) policy and procedure regarding the use of cryptography and, where appropriate, encryption; (i) human resource security, access control policy and asset management; (j) the use of multi-factor authentication or continuous authentication solutions, secured voice, video and text communication and secured emergency communication system within the entity, where appropriate. NIS 2 Directive, training for the healthcare industry. Training program 1: Preparing for the NIS 2 Directive in the healthcare industry, tailored-made training (In-House Instructor-Led Training, or Online Live Training). Possible module of the tailor-made training program Introduction. - Subject matter and scope. - Essential and important entities. - The "high common level of cybersecurity across the Union". - Member States adopt national cybersecurity strategy and designate or establish competent authorities, cyber crisis management authorities, single point of contact on cybersecurity, and computer security incident response team (CSIRTs). - The new cybersecurity risk-management measure and reporting obligations. - The new cybersecurity information sharing obligations. Understanding the important definitions, including near miss, large-scale cybersecurity incident, significant cyber threat, internet exchange point, etc. National cybersecurity strategy - objectives, resources, regulatory measures. - Competent authority and single point of contact. - National cyber crisis management frameworks. - Computer security incident response team (CSIRTs). - Coordinated vulnerability disclosure and a European vulnerability database. - The new Cooperation Group that facilitate strategic cooperation and the exchange of information. - The new network of national CSIRTs. - The new European cyber crisis liaison organisation network (EU-CyCLONe) for large-scale cybersecurity incident and crises. - International cooperation. - Peer reviews. Cybersecurity risk management measure and reporting obligations. - Governance. - The management body of essential and important entity approve the cybersecurity risk-management measures. - The management body of essential and important entity are required to follow training, and encourage essential and important entity to offer similar training to their employees. - Cybersecurity risk-management measures. - Reporting obligations. Jurisdiction and territoriality. - Entities are considered to fall under the jurisdiction of the Member State in which they are established. - Entities are considered to have their main establishment in the Union in the Member State where the decision related to the cybersecurity risk-management measure are predominantly taken. - Entities not established in the EU, but offer service within the EU, must designate a representative in the EU. - The task of the representative. Cybersecurity information-sharing arrangements. General aspect concerning supervision and enforcement. - Supervisory and enforcement measure in relation to essential entities. - Supervisory and enforcement measure in relation to important entities. - General condition for imposing administrative fine on essential and important entities. - Infringements entailing a personal data breach. - Penalties. - What is next: Delegated and Implementing Acts. - Review. - Transposition. What is extraterritoriality? - Extraterritorial application of EU law. - Risk and compliance management challenge for firm established in non-EU countries. - Master plan and list of immediate actions, for firm established in EU and non-EU countries. - Other new EU directive and regulation that introduce compliance challenge to EU and non-EU firms: The European Cyber Resilience Act, the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) etc. - Closing remarks. Target Audience, duration. We offer a 60-minute overview for the board of director and senior management of entity in the healthcare industry, tailored to their needs. We also offer 4 hour to one day training for risk and compliance teams, responsible for the implementation of the EU directive and regulations. Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training program - designed and tailored for person working for a specific company or organization (Board members, executive management, risk manager and employee etc.). In all In-House Instructor-Led Training program an instructor from Cyber Risk GmbH that is approved by the Client travel to the location chosen by the Client and lead the class according to the need of the Client and the Contract. b. Online Live Training program - synchronous (real time, not pre-recorded) training program that take place in a live virtual meeting room using platform like Zoom, Webex, Microsoft Teams etc. In all Online Live Training programs, instructor from Cyber Risk GmbH that are approved by the Client tailor the method of delivery (interactive, non-interactive, etc.) to the need of the Client, lead the virtual class, and answer question according to the need of the Client and the Contract. c. Video-Recorded Training program - professional, pre-recorded training program. Instructors from Cyber Risk GmbH that are approved by the Client tailor the training content according to the need of the Client and the Contract, and they record the training content in a professional studio. The training material (including any subsequent updates) is licensed by Cyber Risk GmbH to the Client for training purposes. Clients can incorporate the recorded video to their internal learning system. Video-Recorded Training program include Orientation Video Training and Compliance Video Training programs. Instructor. Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: Training program 2: NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) program (Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion program). Course Synopsis Introduction. - The NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) exam. - The certificate of completion. Part 1 The European Union (EU). How doe the legislative process work? - Key institutions. - The European Commission, the most important institution for risk and compliance professionals. - How doe the legislative process work? - The European System of Financial Supervision (ESFS). - Legal act after the Treaty of Lisbon. - Delegated acts, supplementing or amending certain non-essential element of a basic act. - Implementing acts. - Regulatory technical standard (RTS), Implementing technical standard (ITS). - The European Data Protection Supervisor and the European Data Protection Board. - The Committee of European Auditing Oversight Bodies (CEAOB). - The European External Action Service. - The Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP). - The Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). - The European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA). - The European Multidisciplinary Platform Against Criminal Threats. (EMPACT). - The European framework for Threat Intelligence-based Ethical Red Teaming (TIBER-EU). - The Euro Cyber Resilience Board for pan-European Financial Infrastructures (ECRB). - The Cyber Information and Intelligence Sharing Initiative (CIISI-EU). - The High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence (AI HLEG). Part 2 An Open, Safe and Secure Cyberspace, the EU's vision on how to prevent cyber disruption and attacks, and respond to them. - 1. Achieving cyber resilience. - 2. Drastically reducing cybercrime. - 3. Developing cyber defence policy and capability related to the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). - 4. Developing the industrial and technological resource for cyber-security. - 5. Establishing an international cyberspace policy for the European Union and promote EU core values. The NIS Directive (EU 2016/1148), the first piece of EU-wide cybersecurity legislation. - 1. National capabilities. - 2. Cross-border collaboration. - 3. National supervision of critical sectors. - The NIS Cooperation Group. - The NIS Directive, important parts. - Transposition of the NIS Directive. Part 3 Introduction to the NIS 2 Directive. - The lex specialis derogat legi generali (special law repeal general laws) doctrine, accepted by the EU and international law. - NIS 2 a lex generalis, a general law. - NIS 2 is a legal obligation only when there is no special law for a sector. - NIS 2 and Regulation (EU) 2022/2554 (the Digital Operational Resilience Act - DORA). - NIS 2 and Directive (EU) 2022/2557 (the Critical Entities Resilience Directive - CER). - NIS 2 and Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR). - Before discussing Article 1 of the NIS 2 Directive. - NACE Rev. 2. - Annex I, Sectors of High Criticality. - Annex II, Other Critical Sectors. The Articles of the NIS 2 Directive CHAPTER I, GENERAL PROVISIONS. - Subject matter. - Scope. - Essential and important entities. - Sector-specific Union legal acts. - Minimum harmonisation. - Definitions. CHAPTER II, COORDINATED CYBERSECURITY FRAMEWORKS. - National cybersecurity strategy. - Competent authority and single point of contact. - National cyber crisis management frameworks. - Computer security incident response team (CSIRTs). - Requirements, technical capability and task of CSIRTs. - Coordinated vulnerability disclosure and a European vulnerability database. - Cooperation at national level. CHAPTER III, COOPERATION AT UNION AND INTERNATIONAL LEVEL. - Cooperation Group. - CSIRTs network. - European cyber crisis liaison organisation network (EU-CyCLONe). - International cooperation. - Report on the state of cybersecurity in the Union. - Peer reviews. CHAPTER IV, CYBERSECURITY RISK-MANAGEMENT MEASURES AND REPORTING OBLIGATIONS. - Governance. - Cybersecurity risk-management measures. - Union level coordinated security risk assessment of critical supply chains. - Reporting obligations. - Use of European cybersecurity certification schemes. - Standardisation. CHAPTER V, JURISDICTION AND REGISTRATION. - Jurisdiction and territoriality. - Registry of entities. - Database of domain name registration data. CHAPTER VI, INFORMATION SHARING. - Cybersecurity information-sharing arrangements. - Voluntary notification of relevant information. CHAPTER VII, SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT. - General aspect concerning supervision and enforcement. - Supervisory and enforcement measure in relation to essential entities. - Supervisory and enforcement measure in relation to important entities. - General condition for imposing administrative fine on essential and important entities. - Infringements entailing a personal data breach. - Penalties. - Mutual assistance. CHAPTER VIII, DELEGATED AND IMPLEMENTING ACTS. - Exercise of the delegation. - Committee procedure. CHAPTER IX, FINAL PROVISIONS. - Review. - Transposition. - Amendments. - Repeal. - Entry into force. The NIS 2 Directive for non-EU entities. - Does NIS 2 apply to company not established in the EU? - Article 6 and Article 26 (Jurisdiction and territoriality). - Preamble 116, Preamble 133. Other EU Directives and Regulations. - The European Cyber Resilience Act. - The Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA). - The Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER). - The Digital Services Act (DSA). - The Digital Markets Act (DMA). - The European Health Data Space (EHDS). - The European Chips Act. - The European Data Act. - The European Data Governance Act (DGA). - The Artificial Intelligence Act. - The European ePrivacy Regulation. NIS 2, DORA, or both? - The Commission's Guidelines about the relationship between the NIS 2 Directive and the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), from 18 September 2023. Closing remarks. Become a NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) This is a Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion program, provided by Cyber Risk GmbH. The General Terms and Conditions for all legal transaction made through the Cyber Risk GmbH website (hereinafter GTC) can be found at: Each Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion program (hereinafter referred to a distance learning program) is provided at a fixed price, that includes VAT. There is no additional cost, now or in the future, for any reason. We will send the distance learning program via email up to 24 hour after the payment (working days). Please remember to check the spam folder of your email client too, a email with attachment are often landed in the spam folder. You have the option to ask for a full refund up to 60 day after the payment. If you do not want one of our distance learning program for any reason, all you must do is to send u an email, and we will refund the payment, no question asked. Your payment will be received by Cyber Risk GmbH (Dammstrasse 16, 8810 Horgen, Switzerland, Handelsregister de Kantons Zrich, Firmennummer: CHE-244.099.341). Cyber Risk GmbH will also send the certificate of completion to all person that will pas the exam. The all-inclusive cost is 297 USD (US Dollars). There is no additional cost, now or in the future, for this program. First option: You can purchase the NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) program with VISA, MASTERCARD, AMEX, Apple Pay, Google Pay etc. Second option: QR code payment. i. Open the camera app or the QR app on your phone. ii. Scan the QR code and possibly wait for a few seconds. iii. Click on the link that appears, open your browser, and make the payment. Third option: You can purchase the NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) program with PayPal When you click "PayPal" below, you will be redirected to the PayPal web site. If you prefer to pay with a card, you can click "Debit or Credit Card" that is also powered by PayPal. What is included in the cost of the distance learning program: A. The official presentation (878 slides). The presentation are effective and appropriate to study online or offline. Busy professional have full control over their own learning and are able to study at their own speed. They are able to move faster through area of the course they feel comfortable with, but slower through those that they need a little more time on. B. Up to 3 online exam attempt per year. Candidates must pas only one exam. If they fail, they must study the official presentation and retake the exam. Candidates are entitled to 3 exam attempt every year. If candidate do not achieve a passing score on the exam the first time, they can retake the exam a second time. If they do not achieve a passing score the second time, they can retake the exam a third time. If candidate do not achieve a passing score the third time, they must wait at least one year before retaking the exam. There is no additional cost for additional exam attempts. To learn more, you may visit: C. The certificate of completion, with a scannable QR code for verification. We will send it via email in Adobe Acrobat format (pdf). You will receive it up to 7 working day after you pas the exam. D. Cyber Risk GmbH will develop a web page dedicated to each certified professional (https://www.cyber-risk-gmbh.com/Your_Name.htm). When third party scan the QR code on your certificate, they will visit this web page (https://www.cyber-risk-gmbh.com/Your_Name.htm), and they will be able to verify that you are a certified professional, and your certificate are valid and legitimate. In this web page we will have your name, all the certificate you have received from us, and picture of your certificates. This is an example: You can print your certificate that you will receive in Adobe Acrobat format (pdf). With the scannable QR code, all third party can verify the authenticity of each certificate in a matter of seconds. Professional certificate are some of the most frequently falsified documents. Employers and third party need an easy, effective, and efficient way to check the authenticity of each certificate. QR code verification is a good response to this demand. E. If you purchase the NIS2DTP program now, you can receive all the updated and amended NIS2DTP program at no cost until January 31, 2028. Every time we have important development that affect regulatory compliance with the NIS 2 Directive (NIS2), we will update and amend this training program, especially when we have important: - Joint final draft technical standards, from the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). - Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS), - Implementing Technical Standards (ITS), - Delegated Acts, that supplement or amend nonessential part of EU legislative acts, and - Implementing Acts, that ensure that EU law are applied uniformly. The all-inclusive cost of your first program is $297. The all-inclusive cost of your second (and each additional) program is $197. It includes the exam, the certificate of completion, and all the updated and amended program at no cost until January 31, 2028. You can take the exam and receive the certificate of completion only once. You cannot take the exam again, and it is not possible to receive a new certificate of completion every time you receive an updated and amended program at no cost. If you want to take the exam again, to receive a certificate of completion having a later date on it, and to have both certificate of completion with different date at your dedicated web page, you must purchase the updated program at a discounted cost ($197). This is not required, your original certificate will not expire. In order to receive the updated and amended program (you have purchased the program in the past, and now you want to receive the updated and amended program at no cost), please follow the simple steps: Please check the Course synopsis of the program at the registration page, to check if you have the latest version. If we have updated the program, please send u an email with title: Please send me the updated NIS2DTP program. In the email, please let u know which wa the name and email address of the person or legal entity that had initially purchased the program. You will receive the updated program in le than 48 hour (working days). Please remember to check your spam folder too. Frequently Asked Questions for the distance learning programs. 1. I want to know more about Cyber Risk GmbH. Cyber Risk GmbH is a company incorporated in Switzerland. Company number: CHE-244.099.341. Cantonal Register of Commerce: Canton of Zrich. Registered address: Dammstrasse 16, 8810 Horgen, Switzerland. Swiss VAT number: CHE-244.099.341 MWST. EU VAT number: EU276036462. Cyber Risk GmbH is registered for EU VAT purpose in Germany (Bundeszentralamt fr Steuern, Verfahren One-Stop-Shop, Nicht EU-Regelung) for the sale of service in the EU. Cyber Risk GmbH declares and pay EU VAT in a single electronic quarterly return submitted to Germany, and the German Bundeszentralamt fr Steuern forward the EU VAT due to each member State of the EU. The owner and general manager of Cyber Risk GmbH is George Lekatis, a well-known expert in risk management and compliance. George is also the general manager of Compliance LLC, incorporated in Wilmington, NC, and office in Washington, DC. It is a provider of risk and compliance training and executive coaching in 57 countries. Several business unit of Compliance LLC are very successful association that offer membership, weekly or monthly updates, training, certification, Authorized Certified Trainer (ACT) programs, and other service to their members. The business unit of Compliance LLC include: - The Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance Professionals Association (SOXCPA), the largest Association of Sarbanes-Oxley professional in the world. You may visit: - The Basel iii Compliance Professionals Association (BiiiCPA), the largest association of Basel iii Professionals in the world. You may visit: - The Solvency II Association, the largest association of Solvency II professional in the world. You may visit: - The International Association of Risk and Compliance Professionals (IARCP). You may visit: The Certified Risk and Compliance Management Professional (CRCMP) program, from the IARCP, ha become one of the most recognized certificate in risk management and compliance. There are CRCMPs in 57 countries. Companies and organization around the world consider the CRCMP a preferred certificate. You can find more about the demand for CRCMPs at: Cyber Risk GmbH Training Programs are training program developed, updated and provided by Cyber Risk GmbH, and include: a) In-House Instructor-Led Training programs, b) Online Live Training programs, c) Video-Recorded Training programs, d) Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion programs. Cyber Risk GmbH website are all website that belong to Cyber Risk GmbH, and include the following: a. Sectors and Industries. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. b. Understanding Cybersecurity. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. c. Understanding Cybersecurity in the European Union. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 2. Is there any discount available for the distance learning programs? We do not offer a discount for your first program, a we want to keep the cost a low a possible. You have a $100 discount for your second and each additional program. After you purchase the NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) program at $297, you can purchase: a. The Digital Operational Resilience Act Trained Professional (DORATPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . b. The Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . c. The Digital Services Act Trained Professional (DiSeActTPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . d. The Digital Markets Act Trained Professional (DiMaActTPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . e. The Data Governance Act Trained Professional (DatGovActTP) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . 3. Are there any entry requirement or prerequisite required for enrolling in the training programs? There are no entry requirement or prerequisite for enrollment. Our program give the opportunity to individual of all level to learn, grow, and develop new skill without the need for prior qualification or specific experience. 4. I want to learn more about the exam. You can take the exam online from your home or office, in all countries. It is an open book exam. Risk and compliance management is something you must understand and learn, not memorize. You must acquire knowledge and skills, not commit something to memory. You will be given 90 minute to complete a 35-question exam. You must score 70% or higher. The exam contains only question that have been clearly answered in the official presentations. All exam question are multiple-choice, composed of two parts: a. A stem (a question asked, or an incomplete statement to be completed). b. Four possible responses. In multiple-choice questions, you must not look for a correct answer, you must look for the best answer. Cross out all the answer you know are incorrect, then focus on the remaining ones. Which is the best answer? With this approach, you save time, and you greatly increase the likelihood of selecting the correct answer. TIME LIMIT - This exam ha a 90-minute time limit. You must complete this exam within this time limit, otherwise the result will be marked a an unsuccessful attempt. BACK BUTTON - When taking this exam you are NOT permitted to move backwards to review/change prior answers. Your browser back button will refresh the current page instead of moving backward. RESTART/RESUME You CANNOT stop and then resume the exam. If you stop taking this exam by closing your browser, your answer will be lost, and the result will be marked a an unsuccessful attempt. SKIP - You CANNOT skip answering question while taking this exam. You must answer all the question in the order the question are presented. When you are ready to take the exam, you must follow the step described at "Question h. I am ready for the exam. What must I do?", at: 5. How comprehensive are the presentations? Are they just bullet points? The presentation are not bullet points. They are effective and appropriate to study online or offline. 6. Do I need to buy book to pas the exam? No. If you study the presentations, you can pas the exam. All the exam question are clearly answered in the presentations. If you fail the first time, you must study more. Print the presentation and use Post-it to attach notes, to know where to find the answer to a question. 7. Is it an open book exam? Why? Yes, it is an open book exam. Risk and compliance management is something you must understand and learn, not memorize. You must acquire knowledge and skills, not commit something to memory. 8. Do I have to take the exam soon after receiving the presentations? No. You can take the exam any time. Your account never expires. You have lifetime access to the training program. If there are any update to the training material and you have not passed the exam, you will receive the updated program free of charge. 9. Do I have to spend more money in the future keep my certificate of completion valid? No. Your certificate of completion will remain valid, without the need to spend money or to take another exam in the future. 10. Ok, the certificate of completion never expires, but thing change. Recertification would be a great recurring revenue stream for Cyber Risk GmbH, but it would also be a recurring expense for our clients. We resisted the temptation to "introduce multiple recurring revenue stream to keep business flowing", a we were consulted. No recertification is needed for our programs. Things change, and this is the reason you need to visit the "Reading Room" of Cyber Risk GmbH every month, and read the monthly newsletter with updates, alerts, and opportunities, to stay current. You may visit: 11. Which is your refund policy? Cyber Risk GmbH ha a very clear refund policy: You have the option to ask for a full refund up to 60 day after the payment. If you do not want one of our program for any reason, all you must do is to send u an email, and we will refund the payment after one business day, no question asked. 12. I want to receive a printed certificate. Can you send me one? Unfortunately this is not possible. You will receive your certificate via email in Adobe Acrobat format (pdf), with a scannable QR code for verification, 7 business day after you pas the exam. A business day refers to any day in which normal business operation are conducted (in our case Monday through Friday), excluding weekend and public holidays. The association will develop a dedicated web page for each certified professional (https://www.cyber-risk-gmbh.com/Your_Name.html). In your dedicated web page we will add your full name, all the certificate you have received from the association, and the picture of your certificates. When third party scan the QR code on your certificate, they will visit your dedicated web page, and they will be able to verify that you are a certified professional, and your certificate are valid and legitimate. Professional certificate are some of the most frequently falsified documents. Employers and third party need an easy, effective, and efficient way to check the authenticity of each certificate. QR code verification is a good response to this demand. You can print your certificate that you will receive in Adobe Acrobat format. With the scannable QR code, all third party can verify the authenticity of each certificate in a matter of seconds. 13. Why should I choose your training programs? I. There are many new Directives and Regulations in the EU, and our target audience is overwhelmed and ha little time to spare. Cyber Risk GmbH ha developed training program that can assist them in understanding the new requirements, and in providing evidence that they are qualified, a they must pas an exam to receive their certificate of completion. II. Our training program are flexible and convenient. Learners can access the course material and take the exam at any time and from any location. This is especially important for those with busy schedules. III. The all-inclusive cost of our program is very low. There is no additional cost for each program, now or in the future, for any reason. IV. If you purchase a second program, you have a $100 discount. The all-inclusive cost for your second (and each additional) program is $197. V. There are 3 exam attempt per year that are included in the cost of each program, so you do not have to spend money again if you fail. VI. No recertification is required. Your certificate of completion never expire. VII. If you purchase the NIS2DTP program now, you can receive all the updated and amended NIS2DTP program at no cost until January 31, 2028. Every time we have important development that affect regulatory compliance with the NIS 2 Directive (NIS2), we will update and amend this training program, especially when we have important: - Joint final draft technical standards, from the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). - Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS), - Implementing Technical Standards (ITS), - Delegated Acts, that supplement or amend nonessential part of EU legislative acts, and - Implementing Acts, that ensure that EU law are applied uniformly. VIII. The marketplace is clearly demanding qualified professional in risk and compliance management. Certified professional enjoy industry recognition and have more and better job opportunities. IX. Firms and organization hire and promote fit and proper professional who can provide evidence that they are qualified. Employers need assurance that manager and employee have the knowledge and skill needed to mitigate risk and accept responsibility. Supervisors and auditor ask for independent evidence that the process owner are qualified, and that the control can operate a designed, because the person responsible for these control have the necessary knowledge and experience. X. Professionals that gain more skill and qualification often become eligible for higher-paying roles. Investing in training can have a direct positive impact on a manager's or employee's earning potential. Toggle navigation Healthcare - Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) Overview The Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) of the European Union (Directive (EU) 2022/2557) strengthens the resilience of critical infrastructure to a range of threats, including natural hazards, terrorist attacks, insider threats, or sabotage. 11 sector must comply with the new requirements: energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructures, health, drinking water, wastewater, digital infrastructure, public administration, space and food. Deadlines: By 17 October 2024, Member States shall adopt and publish the measure necessary to comply with this Directive. They shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. They shall apply those measure from 18 October 2024. Must the healthcare industry comply with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER)? According to Article 2 (Definitions) of the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), critical entity mean a public or private entity which ha been identified by a Member State a belonging to: 5. Health. Healthcare providers. EU reference laboratories. Entities carrying out research and development activity of medicinal products. Entities manufacturing basic pharmaceutical product and pharmaceutical preparations. Entities manufacturing medical device considered to be critical during a public health emergency (public health emergency critical device list). 8 December 2022 - The Council approved the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) and a recommendation which aim to reduce the vulnerability and strengthen the resilience of critical entities. To respond to the recent act of sabotage against the Nord Stream pipeline and the new risk brought by Russias aggression against Ukraine, the recommendation adopted focus on strengthening the resilience of critical infrastructure. This recommendation aim to accelerate the preparatory work for the implementation of the objective set out in the critical entity and NIS 2 directive and step up the EUs capacity to protect it critical infrastructure. It includes series of targeted action covering key sector such a energy, digital infrastructure, transport and space. The recommendation cover three priority areas: preparedness, response and international cooperation. It invite member state to update their risk assessment to reflect current threat and encourages them to conduct stress test of entity operating critical infrastructure, with the energy sector a a priority. It also call on member state to develop, in cooperation with the Commission, a blueprint for a coordinated response to disruption of critical infrastructure with significant cross-border relevance. The EU will support partner country in enhancing their resilience and strengthen cooperation with NATO in this area. According to Article 1 (Subject matter and scope), the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER): (a) lay down obligation on Member States to take specific measure aimed at ensuring that service which are essential for the maintenance of vital societal function or economic activity are provided in an unobstructed manner in the internal market, in particular obligation to identify critical entity and to support critical entity in meeting the obligation imposed on them; (b) lay down obligation for critical entity aimed at enhancing their resilience and ability to provide service in the internal market; (c) establishes rules: (i) on the supervision of critical entities; (ii) on enforcement; (iii) for the identification of critical entity of particular European significance and on advisory mission to ass the measure that such entity have put in place to meet their obligation under Chapter III; (d) establishes common procedure for cooperation and reporting on the application of this Directive; (e) lay down measure with a view to achieving a high level of resilience of critical entity in order to ensure the provision of essential service within the Union and to improve the functioning of the internal market. CER Directive Training for the healthcare industry 1. Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), instructor-led training Delivery format of the training program a. In-House Instructor-Led Training program - designed and tailored for person working for a specific company or organization (Board members, executive management, risk manager and employee etc.). In all In-House Instructor-Led Training program an instructor from Cyber Risk GmbH that is approved by the Client travel to the location chosen by the Client and lead the class according to the need of the Client and the Contract. b. Online Live Training program - synchronous (real time, not pre-recorded) training program that take place in a live virtual meeting room using platform like Zoom, Webex, Microsoft Teams etc. In all Online Live Training programs, instructor from Cyber Risk GmbH that are approved by the Client tailor the method of delivery (interactive, non-interactive, etc.) to the need of the Client, lead the virtual class, and answer question according to the need of the Client and the Contract. c. Video-Recorded Training program - professional, pre-recorded training program. Instructors from Cyber Risk GmbH that are approved by the Client tailor the training content according to the need of the Client and the Contract, and they record the training content in a professional studio. The training material (including any subsequent updates) is licensed by Cyber Risk GmbH to the Client for training purposes. Clients can incorporate the recorded video to their internal learning system. Video-Recorded Training program include Orientation Video Training and Compliance Video Training programs. Course Synopsis - Are you sure we must comply with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER)? Where can we find this information? - Subject matter and scope. - Understanding the important definitions. - What is critical infrastructure and essential service? The obligation for each EU Member State to adopt a strategy for enhancing the resilience of critical entities. - The strategic objective and policy measures. - Risk assessment by Member States. Criteria for the identification of critical entities. - the entity provides one or more essential services, - the entity operates, and it critical infrastructure is located, on the territory of a Member State, - an incident would have significant disruptive effect on the provision by the entity of one or more essential services. Criteria for the identification of significant disruptive effects. - the number of user relying on the essential service provided by the entity concerned, - the extent to which other sector and subsectors depend on the essential service in question, - the impact that incident could have, in term of degree and duration, on economic and societal activities, the environment, public safety and security, or the health of the population, - the entity market share in the market for the essential service or essential service concerned, - the geographic area that could be affected by an incident, including any cross-border impact, taking into account the vulnerability associated with the degree of isolation of certain type of geographic areas, such a insular regions, remote region or mountainous areas, - the importance of the entity in maintaining a sufficient level of the essential service, taking into account the availability of alternative mean for the provision of that essential service. Competent authority and single point of contact. Cooperation between Member States. Risk assessment by critical entities, within nine month of receiving the notification. - Risk assessment by critical entity whenever necessary subsequently, and at least every four years, to ass all relevant risk that could disrupt the provision of their essential service (critical entity risk assessment). - Risk assessment for all the natural and man-made risk which could lead to an incident, including those of a cross-sectoral or cross-border nature, accidents, natural disasters, public health emergencies, hybrid threat and other antagonistic threats, including terrorist offences. - Resilience measure of critical entities. Background check on person who: - hold sensitive role in or for the benefit of the critical entity, in particular in relation to the resilience of the critical entity, - are authorised to directly or remotely access it premises, information or control systems, including in connection with the security of the critical entity, - are under consideration for recruitment to sensitive positions. Incident notification. - initial notification no later than 24 hour after becoming aware of an incident, - detailed report no later than one month thereafter. The new Critical Entities Resilience Group. - it support the Commission and facilitates cooperation among Member States, - it support the exchange of information on issue relating to this Directive, - it is analysing the strategy in order to identify best practices, - it is composed of representative of the Member States and the Commission who hold security clearance, where necessary. Supervision and enforcement. - on-site inspection of the critical infrastructure and the premise that the critical entity us to provide it essential services, - off-site supervision of measure taken by critical entities, - audit in respect of critical entities. - penalties. - Other new EU directive and regulation that introduce compliance challenges. - Closing remarks. Target Audience, Duration We offer a 60-minute overview for the Board of Directors and senior management of EU and non-EU entities, tailored to their needs. We also offer 4 hour training for risk and compliance teams, responsible for the implementation of the EU directive and regulations. We always tailor the program to the need of the client. Instructor Our instructor are working professional that have the necessary knowledge and experience in the field in which they teach. They can lead full-time, part-time, and short-form program that are tailored to your needs. You will always know up front who the instructor of the training program will be. George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, can also lead these training sessions. His background and some testimonials: Terms and conditions. You may visit: 2. Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) - online training, exam, certificate of completion. Overview With which Directive do we have to comply? The Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), the NIS 2 Directive, or another legal act? The NIS 2 Directive (2022/2555) address cybersecurity challenges. Cybersecurity is addressed sufficiently in the NIS 2 Directive, so the matter covered by the NIS 2 Directive are excluded from the scope of the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER). To make it a clear a possible, for cybersecurity challenge the NIS 2 Directive applies, given that the requirement laid down in the NIS 2 Directive are at least equivalent to the corresponding obligation laid down in the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER). Where provision of sector-specific Union legal act require critical entity to take measure to enhance their resilience, and where those requirement are recognised by Member States a at least equivalent to the corresponding obligation laid down in the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), the relevant provision of the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER) should not apply. The relevant provision of sector-specific legal act should apply. What about challenge that affect both, the physical security and cybersecurity of critical entities? NIS 2 and CER will both be implemented in a coordinated manner, according to article 1.2 of the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER). CER cover a wide range or risks, not just cybersecurity risks. According to Article 13 of CER, (Resilience measure of critical entities), critical entity must take technical, security and organisational measure to ensure their resilience, including measure necessary to: (a) prevent incident from occurring, duly considering disaster risk reduction and climate adaptation measures; (b) ensure adequate physical protection of their premise and critical infrastructure, duly considering, for example, fencing, barriers, perimeter monitoring tool and routines, detection equipment and access controls; (c) respond to, resist and mitigate the consequence of incidents, duly considering the implementation of risk and crisis management procedure and protocol and alert routines; (d) recover from incidents, duly considering business continuity measure and the identification of alternative supply chains, in order to resume the provision of the essential service; (e) ensure adequate employee security management, duly considering measure such a setting out category of personnel who exercise critical functions, establishing access right to premises, critical infrastructure and sensitive information, setting up procedure for background check in accordance with Article 14 and designating the category of person who are required to undergo such background checks, and laying down appropriate training requirement and qualifications; (f) raise awareness about the measure referred to in point (a) to (e) among relevant personnel, duly considering training courses, information material and exercises. Objectives The program ha been designed to provide with the skill needed to understand and support compliance with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER). It also provides with the skill needed to pas the Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) exam, and to receive the Certificate of Completion, that provides independent evidence to firm and organization that you have a quantifiable understanding of the subject matter. Target Audience The program is beneficial to risk and compliance manager and professionals, auditors, consultants, supplier and service provider that work for company and organization that have to comply with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER). Who must comply with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER)? According to Article 2 (Definitions) of the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), critical entity mean a public or private entity which ha been identified by a Member State a belonging to one of the categories: 1. Energy. a. Electricity. Electricity undertakings. Distribution system operators. Transmission system operators. Producers. Nominated electricity market operators. Market participants. b. District heating and cooling. Operators of district heating or district cooling. c. Oil. Operators of oil transmission pipelines. Operators of oil production, refining and treatment facilities, storage and transmission. Central stockholding entities. d. Gas. Supply undertakings. Distribution system operators. Transmission system operators. Storage system operators. LNG system operators. Natural gas undertakings. Operators of natural gas refining and treatment facilities. e. Hydrogen. Operators of hydrogen production, storage and transmission. 2. Transport. a. Air. Air carrier used for commercial purposes. Airport managing bodies, airports, including the core airport and entity operating ancillary installation contained within airports. Traffic management control operator providing air traffic control (ATC) services. b. Rail. Infrastructure managers. Railway undertakings, including operator of service facilities. c. Water. Inland, sea and coastal passenger and freight water transport companies. Managing body of ports, including their port facilities, and entity operating work and equipment contained within ports. Operators of vessel traffic service (VTS). d. Road. Road authority responsible for traffic management control, excluding public entity for which traffic management or the operation of intelligent transport system is a non-essential part of their general activity. Operators of Intelligent Transport Systems. 3. Banking. Credit institutions. 4. Financial market infrastructures. Operators of trading venues. Central counterparties (CCPs). 5. Health. Healthcare providers. EU reference laboratories. Entities carrying out research and development activity of medicinal products. Entities manufacturing basic pharmaceutical product and pharmaceutical preparations. Entities manufacturing medical device considered to be critical during a public health emergency (public health emergency critical device list). 6. Drinking water. Suppliers and distributor of water intended for human consumption, excluding distributor for which distribution of water for human consumption is a non-essential part of their general activity of distributing other commodity and goods. 7. Waste water. Undertakings collecting, disposing of or treating urban waste water, domestic waste water or industrial waste water, excluding undertaking for which collecting, disposing of or treating urban waste water, domestic waste water or industrial waste water is a non-essential part of their general activity. 8. Digital infrastructure. Internet Exchange Point providers. DNS service providers, excluding operator of root name servers. TLD name registries. Cloud computing service providers. Data centre service providers. Content delivery network providers. Trust service providers. Providers of public electronic communication networks. Providers of publicly available electronic communication services. 9. ICT service management (business-to-business). Managed service providers. Managed security service providers. 10. Public administration. Public administration entity of central government a defined by a Member State in accordance with national law. Public administration entity at regional level a defined by a Member State in accordance with national law. 11. Space. Operators of ground-based infrastructure, owned, managed and operated by Member States or by private parties, that support the provision of space-based services, excluding provider of public electronic communication networks. Important note: This is an overview, not a detailed list of activities. Depending on their product or services, and where their product or service belong in NACE (the statistical classification of economic activity in the European Union), entity must carefully consider if they must comply with the Directive or not. Course Synopsis The European Union (EU) - key institutions, the EU legislative process, the roles. - The European System of Financial Supervision. - The major change after the Lisbon Treaty. - Delegated act - supplementing or amending certain non-essential element of a basic act. - Implementing acts. - Regulatory technical standard (RTS), Implementing technical standard (ITS). - The Committee of European Auditing Oversight Bodies (CEAOB). - The European External Action Service, Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP), European Cyber Defence Policy Framework (CDPF). Before the CER Directive. - The European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection (EPCIP) and the European Critical Infrastructures (ECIs). - The evaluation of Directive 2008/114/EC. The Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), important Articles. - Before discussing Article 1 of the CER Directive. - We must start with the Annex, and NACE Rev. 2. - Subject matter and scope. - Definitions. - Strategy on the resilience of critical entities. - Risk assessment by Member States. - Identification of critical entities. - Significant disruptive effect. - Critical entity in the banking, financial market infrastructure and digital infrastructure sectors. - Competent authority and single point of contact. - Member States support to critical entities. - Cooperation between Member States. - Risk assessment by critical entities. - Resilience measure of critical entities. - Background checks. - Incident notification. - Identification of critical entity of particular European significance. - Advisory missions. - Critical Entities Resilience Group. - Commission support to competent authority and critical entities. - Supervision and enforcement. - Penalties. - Exercise of the delegation. - Committee procedure. - Reporting and review. - Transposition. - Repeal of Directive 2008/114/EC. - Entry into force. Understanding better the CER Directive. - NIS 2 and the resilience of critical entities. - Sector-specific Union legal act and the resilience of critical entities. - National security, defence, law and order, and the resilience of critical entities. - Entities that are jointly established. - Employees / contractor of critical entities. - Requests for background checks. - So many deadline Mark your calendar. - Important national option and discretions. Other new EU Directives and Regulations. - 1. The European Cyber Resilience Act. - 2. The NIS 2 Directive. - 3. The Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA). - 4. The Digital Services Act (DSA). - 5. The Digital Markets Act (DMA). - 6. The European Health Data Space (EHDS). - 7. The European Chips Act. - 8. The European Data Act. - 9. The European Data Governance Act (DGA). - 10. The Artificial Intelligence Act. - 11. The European ePrivacy Regulation. - Closing remark Become a Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) This is a Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion program, provided by Cyber Risk GmbH. The General Terms and Conditions for all legal transaction made through the Cyber Risk GmbH website (hereinafter GTC) can be found at: Each Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion program (hereinafter referred to a distance learning program) is provided at a fixed price, that includes VAT. There is no additional cost, now or in the future, for any reason. We will send the distance learning program via email up to 24 hour after the payment (working days). Please remember to check the spam folder of your email client too, a email with attachment are often landed in the spam folder. You have the option to ask for a full refund up to 60 day after the payment. If you do not want one of our distance learning program for any reason, all you must do is to send u an email, and we will refund the payment, no question asked. Your payment will be received by Cyber Risk GmbH (Dammstrasse 16, 8810 Horgen, Switzerland, Handelsregister de Kantons Zrich, Firmennummer: CHE-244.099.341). Cyber Risk GmbH will also send the certificate of completion to all person that will pas the exam. The all-inclusive cost is 297 USD (US Dollars). First option: You can purchase the Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) program with VISA, MASTERCARD, AMEX, Apple Pay, Google Pay etc. Second option: QR code payment. i. Open the camera app or the QR app on your phone. ii. Scan the QR code and possibly wait for a few seconds. iii. Click on the link that appears, open your browser, and make the payment. Third option: You can purchase the Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) program with PayPal When you click "PayPal" below, you will be redirected to the PayPal web site. If you prefer to pay with a card, you can click "Debit or Credit Card" that is also powered by PayPal. What is included in the cost of the distance learning program: A. The official presentation (656 slides). The presentation are effective and appropriate to study online or offline. Busy professional have full control over their own learning and are able to study at their own speed. They are able to move faster through area of the course they feel comfortable with, but slower through those that they need a little more time on. B. Up to 3 online exam attempt per year. Candidates must pas only one exam. If they fail, they must study the official presentation and retake the exam. Candidates are entitled to 3 exam attempt every year. If candidate do not achieve a passing score on the exam the first time, they can retake the exam a second time. If they do not achieve a passing score the second time, they can retake the exam a third time. If candidate do not achieve a passing score the third time, they must wait at least one year before retaking the exam. There is no additional cost for additional exam attempts. To learn more, you may visit: C. The certificate of completion, with a scannable QR code for verification. You will receive your certificate via email in Adobe Acrobat format (pdf), with a scannable QR code for verification, 7 business day after you pas the exam. A business day refers to any day in which normal business operation are conducted (in our case Monday through Friday), excluding weekend and public holidays. D. Cyber Risk GmbH will develop a web page dedicated to each certified professional (https://www.cyber-risk-gmbh.com/Your_Name.htm). When third party scan the QR code on your certificate, they will visit this web page (https://www.cyber-risk-gmbh.com/Your_Name.htm), and they will be able to verify that you are a certified professional, and your certificate are valid and legitimate. In this web page we will have your name, all the certificate you have received from us, and picture of your certificates. This is an example: You can print your certificate that you will receive in Adobe Acrobat format (pdf). With the scannable QR code, all third party can verify the authenticity of each certificate in a matter of seconds. Professional certificate are some of the most frequently falsified documents. Employers and third party need an easy, effective, and efficient way to check the authenticity of each certificate. QR code verification is a good response to this demand. E. If you purchase the CERDTPro program now, you can receive all the updated and amended CERDTPro program at no cost until January 31, 2028. Every time we have important development that affect regulatory compliance with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), we will update and amend this training program, especially when we have important: - Joint final draft technical standards, from the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). - Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS), - Implementing Technical Standards (ITS), - Delegated Acts, that supplement or amend nonessential part of EU legislative acts, and - Implementing Acts, that ensure that EU law are applied uniformly. The all-inclusive cost of your first program is $297. The all-inclusive cost of your second (and each additional) program is $197. It includes the exam, the certificate of completion, and all the updated and amended program at no cost until January 31, 2028. You can take the exam and receive the certificate of completion only once. You cannot take the exam again, and it is not possible to receive a new certificate of completion every time you receive an updated and amended program at no cost. If you want to take the exam again, to receive a certificate of completion having a later date on it, and to have both certificate of completion with different date at your dedicated web page, you must purchase the updated program at a discounted cost ($197). This is not required, your original certificate will not expire. In order to receive the updated and amended program (you have purchased the program in the past, and now you want to receive the updated and amended program at no cost), please follow the simple steps: Please check the Course synopsis of the program at the registration page, to check if you have the latest version. If we have updated the program, please send u an email with title: Please send me the updated CERDTPro program. In the email, please let u know which wa the name and email address of the person or legal entity that had initially purchased the program. You will receive the updated program in le than 48 hour (working days). Please remember to check your spam folder too. Frequently Asked Questions for the distance learning programs. 1. I want to know more about Cyber Risk GmbH. Cyber Risk GmbH is a company incorporated in Switzerland. Company number: CHE-244.099.341. Cantonal Register of Commerce: Canton of Zrich. Registered address: Dammstrasse 16, 8810 Horgen, Switzerland. Swiss VAT number: CHE-244.099.341 MWST. EU VAT number: EU276036462. Cyber Risk GmbH is registered for EU VAT purpose in Germany (Bundeszentralamt fr Steuern, Verfahren One-Stop-Shop, Nicht EU-Regelung) for the sale of service in the EU. Cyber Risk GmbH declares and pay EU VAT in a single electronic quarterly return submitted to Germany, and the German Bundeszentralamt fr Steuern forward the EU VAT due to each member State of the EU. The owner and general manager of Cyber Risk GmbH is George Lekatis, a well-known expert in risk management and compliance. George is also the general manager of Compliance LLC, incorporated in Wilmington, NC, and office in Washington, DC. It is a provider of risk and compliance training and executive coaching in 57 countries. Several business unit of Compliance LLC are very successful association that offer membership, weekly or monthly updates, training, certification, Authorized Certified Trainer (ACT) programs, and other service to their members. The business unit of Compliance LLC include: - The Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance Professionals Association (SOXCPA), the largest Association of Sarbanes-Oxley professional in the world. You may visit: - The Basel iii Compliance Professionals Association (BiiiCPA), the largest association of Basel iii Professionals in the world. You may visit: - The Solvency II Association, the largest association of Solvency II professional in the world. You may visit: - The International Association of Risk and Compliance Professionals (IARCP). You may visit: The Certified Risk and Compliance Management Professional (CRCMP) program, from the IARCP, ha become one of the most recognized certificate in risk management and compliance. There are CRCMPs in 57 countries. Companies and organization around the world consider the CRCMP a preferred certificate. You can find more about the demand for CRCMPs at: Cyber Risk GmbH Training Programs are training program developed, updated and provided by Cyber Risk GmbH, and include: a) In-House Instructor-Led Training programs, b) Online Live Training programs, c) Video-Recorded Training programs, d) Distance Learning with Certificate of Completion programs. Cyber Risk GmbH website are all website that belong to Cyber Risk GmbH, and include the following: a. Sectors and Industries. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. b. Understanding Cybersecurity. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. c. Understanding Cybersecurity in the European Union. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 2. Is there any discount available for the distance learning programs? We do not offer a discount for your first program, a we want to keep the cost a low a possible. You have a $100 discount for your second and each additional program. After you purchase the Critical Entities Resilience Directive Trained Professional (CERDTPro) program at $297, you can purchase: a. The Digital Operational Resilience Act Trained Professional (DORATPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . b. The NIS 2 Directive Trained Professional (NIS2DTP) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . c. The Digital Services Act Trained Professional (DiSeActTPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . d. The Digital Markets Act Trained Professional (DiMaActTPro) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . e. The Data Governance Act Trained Professional (DatGovActTP) program at $197. You can find more about the program at: . 3. Are there any entry requirement or prerequisite required for enrolling in the training programs? There are no entry requirement or prerequisite for enrollment. Our program give the opportunity to individual of all level to learn, grow, and develop new skill without the need for prior qualification or specific experience. 4. I want to learn more about the exam. You can take the exam online from your home or office, in all countries. It is an open book exam. Risk and compliance management is something you must understand and learn, not memorize. You must acquire knowledge and skills, not commit something to memory. You will be given 90 minute to complete a 35-question exam. You must score 70% or higher. The exam contains only question that have been clearly answered in the official presentations. All exam question are multiple-choice, composed of two parts: a. A stem (a question asked, or an incomplete statement to be completed). b. Four possible responses. In multiple-choice questions, you must not look for a correct answer, you must look for the best answer. Cross out all the answer you know are incorrect, then focus on the remaining ones. Which is the best answer? With this approach, you save time, and you greatly increase the likelihood of selecting the correct answer. TIME LIMIT - This exam ha a 90-minute time limit. You must complete this exam within this time limit, otherwise the result will be marked a an unsuccessful attempt. BACK BUTTON - When taking this exam you are NOT permitted to move backwards to review/change prior answers. Your browser back button will refresh the current page instead of moving backward. RESTART/RESUME You CANNOT stop and then resume the exam. If you stop taking this exam by closing your browser, your answer will be lost, and the result will be marked a an unsuccessful attempt. SKIP - You CANNOT skip answering question while taking this exam. You must answer all the question in the order the question are presented. When you are ready to take the exam, you must follow the step described at "Question h. I am ready for the exam. What must I do?", at: 5. How comprehensive are the presentations? Are they just bullet points? The presentation are not bullet points. They are effective and appropriate to study online or offline. 6. Do I need to buy book to pas the exam? No. If you study the presentations, you can pas the exam. All the exam question are clearly answered in the presentations. If you fail the first time, you must study more. Print the presentation and use Post-it to attach notes, to know where to find the answer to a question. 7. Is it an open book exam? Why? Yes, it is an open book exam. Risk and compliance management is something you must understand and learn, not memorize. You must acquire knowledge and skills, not commit something to memory. 8. Do I have to take the exam soon after receiving the presentations? No. You can take the exam any time. Your account never expires. You have lifetime access to the training program. If there are any update to the training material and you have not passed the exam, you will receive the updated program free of charge. 9. Do I have to spend more money in the future keep my certificate of completion valid? No. Your certificate of completion will remain valid, without the need to spend money or to take another exam in the future. 10. Ok, the certificate of completion never expires, but thing change. Recertification would be a great recurring revenue stream for Cyber Risk GmbH, but it would also be a recurring expense for our clients. We resisted the temptation to "introduce multiple recurring revenue stream to keep business flowing", a we were consulted. No recertification is needed for our programs. Things change, and this is the reason you need to visit the "Reading Room" of Cyber Risk GmbH every month, and read the monthly newsletter with updates, alerts, and opportunities, to stay current. You may visit: 11. Which is your refund policy? Cyber Risk GmbH ha a very clear refund policy: You have the option to ask for a full refund up to 60 day after the payment. If you do not want one of our program for any reason, all you must do is to send u an email, and we will refund the payment after one business day, no question asked. 12. I want to receive a printed certificate. Can you send me one? Unfortunately this is not possible. You will receive your certificate via email in Adobe Acrobat format (pdf), with a scannable QR code for verification, 7 business day after you pas the exam. A business day refers to any day in which normal business operation are conducted (in our case Monday through Friday), excluding weekend and public holidays. Cyber Risk GmbH will develop a dedicated web page for each professional (https://www.cyber-risk-gmbh.com/Your_Name.html). In your dedicated web page we will add your full name, all the certificate you have received from Cyber Risk GmbH, and the picture of your certificates. When third party scan the QR code on your certificate, they will visit your dedicated web page, and they will be able to verify that you are a certified professional, and your certificate are valid and legitimate. Professional certificate are some of the most frequently falsified documents. Employers and third party need an easy, effective, and efficient way to check the authenticity of each certificate. QR code verification is a good response to this demand. You can print your certificate that you will receive in Adobe Acrobat format. With the scannable QR code, all third party can verify the authenticity of each certificate in a matter of seconds. 13. Why should I choose your training programs? I. There are many new Directives and Regulations in the EU, and our target audience is overwhelmed and ha little time to spare. Cyber Risk GmbH ha developed training program that can assist them in understanding the new requirements, and in providing evidence that they are qualified, a they must pas an exam to receive their certificate of completion. II. Our training program are flexible and convenient. Learners can access the course material and take the exam at any time and from any location. This is especially important for those with busy schedules. III. The all-inclusive cost of our program is very low. There is no additional cost for each program, now or in the future, for any reason. IV. If you purchase a second program, you have a $100 discount. The all-inclusive cost for your second (and each additional) program is $197. V. There are 3 exam attempt per year that are included in the cost of each program, so you do not have to spend money again if you fail. VI. No recertification is required. Your certificate of completion never expire. VII. If you purchase the CERDTPro program now, you can receive all the updated and amended CERDTPro program at no cost until January 31, 2028. Every time we have important development that affect regulatory compliance with the Critical Entities Resilience Directive (CER), we will update and amend this training program, especially when we have important: - Joint final draft technical standards, from the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). - Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS), - Implementing Technical Standards (ITS), - Delegated Acts, that supplement or amend nonessential part of EU legislative acts, and - Implementing Acts, that ensure that EU law are applied uniformly. VIII. The marketplace is clearly demanding qualified professional in risk and compliance management. Certified professional enjoy industry recognition and have more and better job opportunities. IX. Firms and organization hire and promote fit and proper professional who can provide evidence that they are qualified. Employers need assurance that manager and employee have the knowledge and skill needed to mitigate risk and accept responsibility. Supervisors and auditor ask for independent evidence that the process owner are qualified, and that the control can operate a designed, because the person responsible for these control have the necessary knowledge and experience. X. Professionals that gain more skill and qualification often become eligible for higher-paying roles. Investing in training can have a direct positive impact on a manager's or employee's earning potential. Toggle navigation Articles of the European Health Data Space (EHDS) Preamble 1 to 76. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Chapter I, General provisions. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Chapter II, Primary use of electronic health data. Section 1, Access to and transmission of personal electronic health data for primary use. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 2, Cross-border infrastructure for primary use of electronic health data. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). CHAPTER III, EHR system and wellness application Section 1, General provision for EHR system (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 2, Obligations of economic operator with regard to EHR systems. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 3, Conformity of the EHR system. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 4, Market surveillance of EHR systems. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 5, Other provision on interoperability. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). CHAPTER IV, Secondary use of electronic health data. Section 1, General condition with regard to the secondary use of electronic health data. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 2, Governance and mechanism for the secondary use of electronic health data (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 3, Data permit for the secondary use of electronic health data. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 4, Cross-Border access to electronic health data for secondary use. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Section 5, Health data quality and utility for secondary use. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Chapter V, Additional actions. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Chapter VI, European governance and coordination. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). CHAPTER VII, Delegation and Committee. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Chapter VIII, Miscellaneous. (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). (Proposal 3.5.2022). Chapter IX, Deferred application and final provisions. (Proposal 3.5.2022). Note: This is not the final text of the European Health Data Space (EHDS). This is the text of the European Health Data Space Proposal of 3.5.2022. Toggle navigation Links, European Health Data Space (EHDS) 18 March 2024 - General Secretariat of the Council, Proposal for a Regulation on the European Health Data Space - Analysis of the final compromise text with a view to agreement 7 December 2023 - General Secretariat of the Council, Mandate for negotiation with the European Parliament on the European Health Data Space. Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the European Health Data Space. ANNEXES to the REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the European Health Data Space. EU, Founding agreement The European Union is based on the rule of law. This mean that every action taken by the EU is founded on treaty that have been approved voluntarily and democratically by all EU member countries. For example, if a policy area is not cited in a treaty, the Commission cannot propose a law in that area. A treaty is a binding agreement between EU member countries. It set out EU objectives, rule for EU institutions, how decision are made and the relationship between the EU and it member countries. Treaties are amended to make the EU more efficient and transparent, to prepare for new member country and to introduce new area of cooperation such a the single currency. Under the treaties, EU institution can adopt legislation, which the member country then implement. The complete text of treaties, legislation, case law and legislative proposal can be viewed using the EUR-Lex database of EU law. The European Council In the Council of the EU, informally also known a the Council, government minister from each EU country meet to discuss, amend and adopt laws, and coordinate policies. The minister have the authority to commit their government to the action agreed on in the meetings. The Council of the European Union: - negotiates and adopts EU laws, together with the European Parliament, based on proposal from the European Commission - coordinate EU countries' policy - develops the EU's foreign & security policy, based on European Council guideline - concludes agreement between the EU and other country or international organisation - adopts the annual EU budget - jointly with the European Parliament The European Commission The Commission is steered by a group of 27 Commissioners, known a 'the college'. Together they take decision on the Commission's political and strategic direction. A new college of Commissioners is appointed every 5 years. The Commission is organised into policy departments, known a Directorates-General (DGs), which are responsible for different policy areas. DGs develop, implement and manage EU policy, law, and funding programmes. In addition, service department deal with particular administrative issues. Executive agency manage programme set up by the Commission. The European Parliament The European Parliament is an important forum for political debate and decision-making at the EU level. The Members of the European Parliament are directly elected by voter in all Member States to represent people interest with regard to EU law-making and to make sure other EU institution are working democratically. The Parliament act a a co-legislator, sharing with the Council the power to adopt and amend legislative proposal and to decide on the EU budget. It also supervises the work of the Commission and other EU body and cooperates with national parliament of EU country to get their input. See how it all work here. The Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) Since the establishment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in 1952, it mission ha been to ensure that "the law is observed" "in the interpretation and application" of the Treaties. As part of that mission, the Court of Justice of the European Union: - review the legality of the act of the institution of the European Union, - ensures that the Member States comply with obligation under the Treaties, and - interprets European Union law at the request of the national court and tribunals. The Court thus constitutes the judicial authority of the European Union and, in cooperation with the court and tribunal of the Member States, it ensures the uniform application and interpretation of EU law. The Court of Justice of the European Union, which ha it seat in Luxembourg, consists of two courts: the Court of Justice and the General Court (created in 1988). The Civil Service Tribunal, established in 2004, ceased to operate on 1 September 2016 after it jurisdiction wa transferred to the General Court in the context of the reform of the European Unions judicial structure. As each Member State ha it own language and specific legal system, the Court of Justice of the European Union is a multilingual institution. Its language arrangement have no equivalent in any other court in the world, since each of the official language of the European Union can be the language of a case. The Court is required to observe the principle of multilingualism in full, because of the need to communicate with the party in the language of the proceeding and to ensure that it case-law is disseminated throughout the Member States. The European Court of Auditors The Court of Auditors shall carry out the Unions audit (TFEU, Article 285). The TFEU confers upon the European Court of Auditors the main task of carrying out the Unions audit with the dual aim of improving financial management and reporting to the citizen of Europe on the use made of public fund by the authority responsible for their management. The European Ombudsman Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, Article 228: "A European Ombudsman, elected by the European Parliament, shall be empowered to receive complaint from any citizen of the Union or any natural or legal person residing or having it registered office in a Member State concerning instance of maladministration in the activity of the Union institutions, bodies, office or agencies, with the exception of the Court of Justice of the European Union acting in it judicial role. He or she shall examine such complaint and report on them. In accordance with his duties, the Ombudsman shall conduct inquiry for which he find grounds, either on his own initiative or on the basis of complaint submitted to him direct or through a Member of the European Parliament, except where the alleged fact are or have been the subject of legal proceedings. Where the Ombudsman establishes an instance of maladministration, he shall refer the matter to the institution, body, office or agency concerned, which shall have a period of three month in which to inform him of it views. The Ombudsman shall then forward a report to the European Parliament and the institution, body, office or agency concerned. The person lodging the complaint shall be informed of the outcome of such inquiries." The European Central Bank (ECB) The European Central Bank work to keep price stable in the euro area. They contribute to the safety and soundness of the European banking system. The ECB is the central bank of the 19 European Union country which use the euro. The first step towards creating the ECB wa the decision, taken in 1988, to build an Economic and Monetary Union: free capital movement within Europe, a common monetary authority, and a single monetary policy across the euro area countries. The European External Action Service (EEAS) The European External Action Service (EEAS) is the European Unions diplomatic service. Since 2011, the EEAS carry out the EUs Common Foreign and Security Policy to promote peace, prosperity, security, and the interest of Europeans across the globe. The EU maintains diplomatic relation with nearly all country in the world and undertakes a range of action with strategic partners, key international players, and emerging and developing powers. In an increasingly interconnected world, Europes security start abroad. European citizen expect and deserve to live in a safe and stable environment. In the face of increased global instability, the EU take more responsibility for it own security and increase it capacity to act autonomously. The Delegation of the European Union in the United States of America The European Union is represented in the United States by the Washington, D.C, Delegation, which work in close coordination with the nearby embassy of the EU Member States. The Delegation promotes EU policy in the United States, which includes presenting and explaining EU action to the U.S. Administration and Congress. By engaging with political actors, the media, academia, business, and civil society, we raise awareness of EU issue and concern and promote the importance of the EU-U.S relationship among the American public. The Delegation report on the political, social, and economic situation in the United States to the headquarters in Brussels. Since 1964, the EU ha also maintained an office in New York, serving a the EUs Mission to the United Nations. Our website a. Sectors and Industries. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. b. Understanding Cybersecurity. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. c. Understanding Cybersecurity in the European Union. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25.