Findata is a one-stop shop for the secondary use of social and health care register data in Finland. Findata wa established in 2019, started operation in 2020 and ha currently 22 employees. The main objective of Findata are to improve data security and streamline the utilisation of social and health care data resources. Findata grant permit for the secondary use of data when it is needed from several public data controllers, the private sector or Kanta services. After granting the permit it compiles, combine and pre-process the data and offer Kapseli a secure remote access system with tool for analysing. Findata work in conjuction with Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, under the performance guidance of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Front page Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Findata We grant permit for the secondary use of social and health care data and improve data protection for individuals. After granting the permit we compile, combine and pre-process it and offer tool for analysing. Data source See which data controller data are available, who grant the permit and where you can find data descriptions. Apply for a permit Submit an application when the data needed is from several public data controllers, the private sector or from Kanta Services. Information for citizen Learn what your data is used for, what your right under the GDPR are, and how we take care of your privacy. News Findata successfully lead development of Common European Application Forms in HealthData@EU Pilot 02.05.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.04.2024 Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.04.2024 A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use FinHITS Towards the Future of the Secondary Use of Health Data Join u on our four-year mission to strengthen the Finnish health data infrastructure and promote efficient and secure secondary use of health data! Average total duration of application processing Data permit: 35 month from submitting an application to a permit decision From submitting amendment application to permit: 14 week From submitting request for statistical data to decision: 36 month Data: 36 month The delivery time of the data is affected by the number of data controller and how many stage the data is collected. Applications received and decision made in 2024, updated 6 May 2024 36 data permit application Share 2024: 37 % In 2023: 85 pc (29 %) Total: 602 pc 51 amendement application Share 2024: 52 % In 2023: 173 pc (58 %) Total: 566 pc 11 statistical data request Share 2024: 11 % In 2023: 38 pc (13 %) Total: 127 pc 118 decision Positive: 94 % Lapsed: 6 % In 2023: 351 pc Total: 1191 pc Status of received application 14 pre-process 12 in queue 50 in process Read our tip on what make a good application and how you can speed up the application process. See which project we have granted a data permit, amendment permit or a data request decision. Read Findatas regulation on secure processing environments, data descriptions, data permit application and data utilisation plans. Browse frequently asked question and their answer about our service and the Secondary Use Act. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 22.02.2024 Data You can obtain social and health sector register data through us, when you need these for secondary use and the data originates from numerous different public controllers, public service provider and the Kanta Services. Book a time for personal consultation You can book a time for personal consultation with an expert from Findata. Appointments are available four day a week and last for 20 minutes. The meeting are held remotely via Teams. We offer help in the following topics: General consultation on Findatas service Data permit applications, amendments, and data request Extraction description form and other form Ordering Findatas secure processing environment Kapseli, pausing, and data storage service You can see the available time below. After booking, you will receive a confirmation email and a downloadable calendar reminder. We will send the link to the Teams meeting later. The personal consultation service is provided a a part of the funded by the European Union. What data are available? Check out the controller within the scope of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, the contact detail we have collected on controller and link to data descriptions. Can data be combined to other information? Other data can be combined to data applied for from Findata. Please list the data to be combined in your application. Where can the data be analysed? Data that is subject to data permit and amendment permit can only be analysed in an environment that meet specific requirements. Statistical data accessed via a data request is sent to the customer. Where do I send an application for a permit? Select the controller from whom you need data and check which authority is competent to grant a permit or send data. What data are available via Findata? You can apply for access to the data maintained by the controller listed below via Findata. More detail on these data restriction can be found in the . Controllers create data description for their register content so that those requiring data are able to ass the suitability of the register data for secondary use. You can obtain more information about the available data directly from the controllers. We have initiated cooperation with controller to standardise data descriptions. See a list of the controller within the scope of the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency The Finnish Digital Agency, individual basic details, family relations, place of domicile and building detail Finnish Centre for Pensions Work and earnings data, benefit and the base for them Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Does not apply to data collected for statistical purpose Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Occupational illnesses, exposure test and patient register Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Benefits and prescription Statistics Finland To the extent that access is required to data covered by the act on the investigation of the cause of death Regional state administrative agency Matters relating to social welfare and health care) Can data be combined to other information? Data referred to in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data can be combined to other information, such a data a person ha collected themselves or data accessed with some other permit. As a rule, Findata or a statistic authority can combine the data. If you wish to combine data later on to data you have received via Findata, send an amendment application for the data to be combined. For more information please see the page. If you are applying to have data accessed with an individual consent to be combined with data that Findata ha issued a permit for, the research subject notification and consent model must be attached to the application. If the data have been accessed with the permission of other actors, list the following information in the application: Permit record number, issuer, date of decision. If the permit process is pending, the party to whom the application wa submitted and the permit process start date. A brief description of the information content of other data. Do not attach permit for other data to the application. The application processor will ask for these separately of necessary. See the instruction for sending data on the page . Where can the data be analysed? The aggregated statistical data accessed via a data request is sent to the customer, and it can be analysed freely in accordance with a data utilisation plan. Data on individual that require a data permit can only be analysed in a secure environment. As a rule, the data will always be disclosed to Findatas secure operating environment . However, the Act on the Openness of Government Activities make it possible to disclose information to other operating environments, if necessary. Read more below in the section:. If an individual controller within the scope of the Act on Secondary Use ha made a decision on a data permit concerning data included in their own registers, they must disclose the data to a secure environment referred to in the Act on Secondary Use a well. Amendment permit are also officially data permit (decisions to amend data permits), meaning the same requirement apply to these a to data permits. The exception to this is change to personal data processors. National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Valvira maintains a public register of the compliant operating environment notified to it. Read more on Valviras website:. On the page youll also find information about registering in the database and registration fees. Findatas regulation set information security requirement for environment We have issued a regulation in accordance with the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, which describes the requirement laid down other service provider secure operating environments. The regulation concern the secondary use of social and health data, and it will be applied to all the purpose provided in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data for which a data permit is required. These purpose include scientific research, statistics, teaching and the planning and investigation task of the authorities. With regard to teaching, the regulation pertains to the preparation of teaching materials, not actual teaching. As of 1 May 2022, the implementation of the requirement laid down in the regulation is a prerequisite for the disclosure of data to be processed by the permit holder for secondary purpose in an environment other than Findatas secure operating environment Kapseli. In addition, the operating environment must be assessed by a data security assessment body that must issue a certificate on the assessment. The requirement take into account the solution in existing environment and enable the utilisation of different technical solutions. At it simplest, a secure environment can be a physically and technically secure space with a terminal device for analysing data that is isolated from the Internet and other devices. On the other hand, technical solution based on cloud service are also possible, a long a the service provider ensures the required level of data security. The operating environment of foreign researcher must also meet the data protection and security requirement laid down in the regulation. Their validity can be demonstrated by mean of certificate based on international audits, the compliance of which is verified by an assessment body approved in Finland. Read more on the regulation on the page Where do I send an application for a permit? Under the law, statistical, aggregated data subject to a data request can only be accessed via Findata. In addition to Findata, public controller can issue data permits, if the application is related only to data maintained by the controller in question. Amendment permit are also officially data permit (decisions to amend data permits), meaning the authority for issuing these is determined in the same manner a for data permits. Findata is responsible for the application and the permit decision whenever the data of data controller covered by the Secondary Act are combined. Submit an application for a permit or change to Findata if it concerns: data from several public social and health sector controller data maintained by a single public controller, that ha transferred the right to issue permit to Findata register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. See the end of this page for the . Select which controller data you are applying for access to and the assistant will tell you which authority you must submit an application to for the permit(s). Transferred right to issue permit Public controller may authorise Findata to carry out on their behalf the authorisation provided for in the Secondary Act. Therefore when a controller ha transferred their authority to issue data permit to Findata, we process data permit application and amendment application that apply only to the information content of the specific controller registers. At the moment, the following controller have transferred the right to issue permit to Findata: Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), excluding it internal permit administration a well a the permit administration for the disclosure of sample and information transferred to the THL Biobank. Regional State Administrative Agencies of Southern Finland, Eastern Finland, Lapland, Southwestern Finland, Western and Inland Finland and Northern Finland National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health (Valvira) Of the public data controllers, Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV), the Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK) and Statistics Finland can not transfer their authority to issue permit to Findata. See also Ready-made datasets Our aim is to provide our customer pre-processed data on thematic entity in early 2022. Submission of data to Findata Read about how to submit data to Findata in a secure manner via the Nextcloud transfer service. Regulation on data description We have issued a regulation in accordance with the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data on the information content, concept and information structure of data descriptions. Application assistant Select the controller from which the data will be retrieved Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency (The Finnish Digital Agency) Finnish Centre for Pensions Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea Ministry of Social Affairs and Health National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Private service provider of social welfare or health care (one or many) Regional state administrative agency Several public service provider of social welfare or health care (more than one wellbeing service county etc.) Single public service provider of social welfare or health care (only one wellbeing service county etc.) Social Insurance Institution of Finland Kela Statistics Finland Apply permit from the controller in question. The exception is those controller who have delegated permit jurisdiction to Findata. Please note that Findata is responsible for data permit and amendment application whenever the data of data controller covered by the Act on secondary use is combined. When evaluating the competent authority, all data related to the application under the Act must be taken into account. Apply permit (s) from the controller in question. Findata is responsible for data permit of the Finnish Center for Pensions (ETK) and the Finnish Digital Agency (DVV) and / or Statistics Finland if the data are combined with data of other public organization under the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data (For Statistics Finland, at least two other organization are needed, for DVV and ETK, one is sufficient) data stored on Kanta service or to the register data of a private social or health care service provider. Apply permit from Findata. Findata is responsible for processing and making decision concerning data permit and amendment applications, when the application applies to: data from numerous public social and health sector controller register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Apply permit from Findata. The Regional Administrative Agencies (AVI) have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. Apply permit from Findata. National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. Apply for a data permit Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) ha delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. As far a THL is concerned, the delegation of jurisdiction doe not apply to it internal permit management the transfer of sample and data transferred to THL Biobank. Permit is applied from Statistics Finland and the respective data controller. Exceptions are the registrar who have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. We are responsible for data permit for data subject to the Secondary Act of Statistics Finland when they are combined to the information of at least two public organization covered by secondary law to data stored in Kanta service or to the register data of a private social or healthcare service organizer. Apply permit from Findata. Findata is responsible for processing and making decision concerning data permit and amendment applications, when the application applies to: data from numerous public social and health sector controller register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Please select at least one data controller or group. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 22.02.2024 Permits We issue permit for the secondary use of social and health data, combine data that is subject to a permit in a secure manner and pre-process these ensuring the privacy of citizens. Book a time for personal consultation You can book a time for personal consultation with an expert from Findata. Appointments are available four day a week and last for 20 minutes. The meeting are held remotely via Teams. We offer help in the following topics: General consultation on Findatas service Data permit applications, amendments, and data request Extraction description form and other form Ordering Findatas secure processing environment Kapseli, pausing, and data storage service You can see the available time below. After booking, you will receive a confirmation email and a downloadable calendar reminder. We will send the link to the Teams meeting later. The personal consultation service is provided a a part of the funded by the European Union. Before applying Applying After applying What to remember before sending an application Select the correct application type There are different type of application for different information need Data permit application, when you need data on individual Data request, when you need statistical data Amendment application, when you are applying for an amendment to a valid data permit Describe and limit data Define the data to be applied for at the variable level and remember the principle of minimisation for other information. and controller advisory service Where from and how do I extract the target group? Is the definition specific enough? Are control subjects/relatives extracted? How will they be defined? From which register will the data be extracted? What variable will be included in the extraction? Other data to be combined Have you made sure that the other data is described on the application? Are the permit for other data valid or is the permit process pending? Determine the competent authority Findata is responsible for the application and the permit decision whenever dataare combinedfrom data controller covered by the Act on secondary use of health and social data.The assessment of the competent authority must therefore consider all the data related to the application. Before applying What data use can permit be issued for? A permit can be issued for the purpose laid down in law, which are listed below. Data on individual will be sent to a secure operating environment for analysis, while statistical data can be sent to the applicant. Pursuant to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, information can be used without a separate permit also for knowledge management and social welfare and health care official management and supervision. Individual-level material scientific research statistic education planning and reporting duty of an authority In addition, under the Secondary Use Act, controller can use their own data for knowledge management without permission from Findata. Statistical data scientific research statistic planning and reporting duty of an authority and/or guidance and supervision of a social and healthcare authority education development and innovation operation knowledge management (comparative data) Note that a a rule, the Secondary Use Act applies to register-based studies. A register-based study is a study which utilises register data usually collected for other purpose or national registers. For example, the Secondary Use Act doe not apply to clinical trial reported to Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea or to medical trial under the Medical Research Act. What data can permit be issued for? The data you can access via Findata are from social and health sector controller on which you can find more information on the page. Please note that we cannot issue permit for the data of all controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act. More detail on these data restriction can be found in the . See a list of the controller within the scope of the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency The Finnish Digital Agency, individual basic details, family relations, place of domicile and building detail Finnish Centre for Pensions Work and earnings data, benefit and the base for them Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Does not apply to data collected for statistical purpose Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Occupational illnesses, exposure test and patient register Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Benefits and prescription Statistics Finland To the extent that access is required to data covered by the act on the investigation of the cause of death Regional state administrative agency Matters relating to social welfare and health care) Data description and additional information In accordance with the Secondary Use Act, data controller provide advisory service concerning their own data and are the best placed to do so. If you need more information on the variable in a certain controller data, contact the controller in question. You can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. In the application you send to us, specify the person with whom you have agreed to on the matter. The National Data Catalogue at aineistokatalogi.fi contains description of some of the data in the scope of the Secondary Use Act. Which authority should a permit application be submitted to? Findata is responsible for the application and the permit decision whenever dataare combinedfrom data controller covered by the Secondary Use Act. The assessment of the competent authority must therefore consider all the data related to the application. Submit the application to Findata when it applies to data from several public social and health sector controller data maintained by a single public controller, that ha transferred the right to issue permit to Findata register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Under the law, statistical, aggregated data subject to a data request can only be accessed via Findata. See the bottom of this page for the application assistant. The assistant can help in determining which authority you should send you data permit or amendment application to. The right listed below concerning the issuing of data permit and amendment permit also apply when not permit ha been issued to any controller information. If there is already a valid permit for some of the information, it will then be determined how many controller have data that the applicant need to access. In a situation where a permit is only needed for information from one public sector controller, the controller in question will issue the permit. The Secondary Use Act doe not apply to clinical trial reported to Fimea, so these are not within Fimeas competence. The definition for interventional clinical trial and noninterventional study can be looked up in Finnish at . When necessary, Fimea will provide advice on whether a study is considered a clinical trial. You can read more on data permit processing related competence in Finnish in section 44 of the Under the Secondary Use Act, public sector social and health controller are divided into two groups. Below is the more detailed division of these group and their difference in competence. Public sector controllers: Group 1 Regional State Administrative Agencies (AVI) Social Insurance Institution (Kela) Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public service provider of social welfare and health care Ministry of Social Affairs and Health (STM) Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (TTL) We are responsible for data permit and amendment permit when the application concern the information of at least controller in this group. This is also applies in a situation where another party could be believed to have already accessed data or to have their own data. If for example, a wellbeing service county need data from Kela in addition to their own data for a study, the application in this case concern the data of two controllers. In this case, Findata is the competent authority. If the application or the data utilisation plan mention other data under the Secondary Use Act which is to be combined with the data to be retrieved, the application applies to this combined data a well. Public sector controllers: Group 2 Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV): A person basic personal data (e.g. birthdate, date of death, personal identity code), family relations, place of residence and building details. If other information is needed, DVV is responsible for processing application and making permit decisions. Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK): Peoples employment and income data, granted benefit and their ground including diagnosis concerning disability pensions. If other information is needed, the ETK is responsible for processing application and making permit decisions. Statistics Finland: Information to help in determining cause of death. If other information is needed, Statistics Finland will be responsible for processing application and making permit decisions. We are responsible for the data permit and amendment permit of the Finnish Centre for Pensions, the Digital and Population Data Service Agency and Statistics Finland, if in addition to them the application also concern information from one or more public sector controller in Group 1 information from one or more private social welfare and health care service organisers, or data saved in the Kanta Services Applying Logging into e-services All application to Findata are sent in our e-service with an online form. Log into the service at using Suomi.fi e-Identification or Haka log in. Please always log in using the same identification methods, so that you can see the application you have sent and the decision that have been given. If you encounter any problems, contact Findatas advisory service: For more information on logging in see the page. Selecting and completing an application form There are different application form for different information need Data permit application, when you need data on individuals, the analysis of data subject to a data permit will only be possible in audited, secure operating environments. Data request, when you need statistical data The statistical data accessed with a data request will be sent to the applicant. Amendment application, when you are applying for an amendment to a valid data permit See the Amendment permit page for information on what amendment you can apply for with an . Complete the application form carefully. Shortcomings in an applicant will lead to a request for more information and the return of the application to the applicant. For detailed instruction on the completion of different application form see the page for different type of permits: If you do not know what information to enter into an information field on the form, ask for help well in advance from within your organisation or from our advisory service. Help Desk General guidance & advice How to expediate the processing of application The processing time for application are affected by the content of the application, in particular, the accuracy of an extraction description, the backlog at Findata and the response time of controllers. If there are any ambiguity concerning the completion of your application, contact the controller directly and Findatas advisory service to expediate processing. How to speed up the processing of your application: Check whether Findata is the competent authority to issue a permit for the data you need. Use the to help in determining this. The exception to Findatas one-stop shop are the Digital and Population Data Services Agency, the Finnish Centre for Pensions, and Statistics Finland. If you need information from one or several the aforementioned controllers, these controller are responsible themselves for the processing of application and making permit decisions. If you do not know where you should send an application, contact our advisory service before sending the application:. Contact controller directly if you need more information about the data or variables. In accordance with the Secondary Use Act, the data controller provide advisory service concerning their own data and are the best placed to do so. You can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. In the application you send to us, specify the person with whom you have agreed to on the matter. You can also contact our advisory service or use the . Describe the information need and the register-specific data extraction a accurately a possible before sending the application. If the extraction includes several steps, also describe the order of extraction. Use . Incomplete or insufficient description can lead to your application being returned to you. Make sure that the extraction and the data you want to retrieve is essential The principle of minimisation a defined in the GDPR is applied to the disclosure of personal data, meaning that only the essential data is disclosed. The extraction can be extensive provided that there are good ground for the necessity of the data. Complete the applicationcarefully. Pay attention when entering basic data such a the applicant, the controller for the data to be disclosed, invoicing detail and possible other data to be combined. About the transfer of personal data outside the EU/EEA The processing of personal data abroad is counted a a transfer of personal data even if the data is in a remote access environment. Under the EUs General Data Protection Regulation, data can be transferred within the European Economic Area on the same ground a within Finland. Countries belonging to the European Economic Area include the EU Member States and Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. If data is to be transferred or processed outside the aforementioned countries, i.e. in so-called third countries, there must be a legal basis for this in keeping with Chapter V of the GDPR. The acceptable legal base are listed below. It is sufficient that just one of these base for data transfer is met. Commission decision in the adequacy of data protection under Article 45 If the requirement for the transfer are met on this basis, no other measure are required, and we will take this criterion into account a a factor justifying the transfer in the data permit decision. This safe country principal is the primary basis for data transfer. For more information, see . Standard contractual clause on data protection pursuant to Article 46(2) Standard contractual clause (SCC) are standard contractual clause approved by the European Commission that can be used in contract between two controller or between a controller and a processor. These standard clause can be viewed on . If this is given a the basis for data transfer, we will take this criterion into account in the data permit decision. We will make the data available outside the EU/EEA subject to this condition and only after the applicant or permit holder ha submitted to Findata the signed standard contractual clauses. The use of standard clause will also require additional examination of the adequacy of data protection. Please note that standard contractual clause may not be modified or added to, but must be approved a they are. Binding corporate rule pursuant to Article 47 Binding corporate rule (BCR) refer to shared, binding rule for the transfer of personal data to third country within a corporate group or group of company engaged in joint economic operations. For more information, . If this is given a the basis for data transfer, we will take this criterion into account in the data permit decision. We will make the data available outside the EU/EEA area subject to this condition and only after the applicant or permit holder ha notified the Findata of the code of conduct in question, which must have been appropriately approved by a data protection ombudsman of an EU Member State. Exceptions and safeguard under Article 49 Exceptions and safeguard under Article 49, such a the explicit consent of the subject to the proposed transfer after being informed of the risk associated with the transfer.This basis for transfer can only be used in exceptional cases. For more information, . When appealing to this legal basis when utilising data subject to a permit, the controller or the processor must describe in their report on processing operation the assessment related to the transfer and the appropriate safeguard established. For more information, . If this is given a the basis for data transfer, we will take this criterion into account in the data permit decision. Further information on the transfer of data to the United Kingdom following Brexit can be found on . Permit fee and other cost A fee will be charged for decision concerning data permit applications, data request and amendment application and the related processing of data. The price of our service comprises the price of the decision and an hourly fee, which will be determined according to the working hour spent on combining and processing the data. In addition to the fee charged by Findata, the final price is affected by the data extraction and delivery fee based ondecrees concerning the controllers. When we process applications, we will ask the controller for a maximum cost estimate for extracting the necessary data. We will also give a maximum cost estimate on data processing by Findata. We will forward these estimate to the applicant before making a decision on the permit. The final price of the data resource is confirmed after disclosing the data. A separate processing fee is charged for any expired and negative decisions. See the page for more information. After applying How doe an application processing proceed? The processing of application can be divided into five stages, which can be preceded by the applicant independently contacting to a controller. The process is shown in text after the graph. The applicant contact controller directly before sending an application, if they need additional information on the data or variable or they need help with drawing up an extraction description. The applicant can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. If the customer and the controller contact person have agreed for example that a clinician, who is part of the research team will extract the data free of charge, the application Additional information section should include information on who this wa agreed on with and in what context. The applicant submits their application or requested additional information to Findata in the electronic application system at . If the applicant is only submitting additional information, the clarification can, depending on the case, also be submitted by e-mail. Our application processor check application and their appendix to ensure that these contain all the necessary information. Where necessary, we will return an incomplete application for completion or we will submit a request for further clarification to the applicant. When all the extraction description have been completed, we will send additional information and cost estimate request to the controller whose information is requested in the application. The purpose of the request is to determine the feasibility of the requested extraction and the maximum cost estimate for the extraction. According to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, the controller have 15 working day to respond to this request. Where necessary, controller may ask for additional detail to the request, in which case we will forward the question to the applicant. At this stage, we will also determine Findatas internal cost estimate, which comprises our own data processing costs. Once all the cost estimate have been received, the applicant will be presented with a final extraction description and a maximum cost estimate for approval. The applicant must accept both in order for the permit to be granted. Note that it will not be possible to change the extraction condition after this, and that change made to the extracted data later on will require a separate application. We at Findata will issue a positive data permit or data request decision. Note, that data permit are always for a fixed period. If data need to be saved for a purpose such a the verification of research or the you intend to renew your permit or the extraction must be updated at certain intervals, include these need in your application. How will the compilation of the applied for data proceed? Once we have issued a data permit or made a decision on a data request, there are five different staged for the compilation of data and it pre-processing. The process is shown in text after the graph. We will send the data request to the controller so that extraction can begin. Each controller ha 30 working day to submit the requested data to Findata. Depending on the nature of the project and the extraction, this phase may include several consecutive parts, such a 1. extraction of the target group; 2. extraction of the controls; 3. extraction of data. We will begin to process the sent data. As agreed on for each project, we will check, combine and pseudonymise the data or make statistic on them in accordance with a data request. The completed data will be handed over to the permit holder in an agreed-upon secure operating environment. Findatas secure remote operating environment is the statutory primary option. The data can be disclosed to other operating environments, if this is necessary for the completion of the project. The target time for the handing over of data is 60 working days. The target time will not be possible if a target group is not given immediately after the decision ha been made, data extraction is carried out in several stages, delivery by data controller are delayed or the data is exceptionally complex. The permit holder ha three month to review the material. The permit holder must notify Findata within this given time period of any comment they wish to make on the material. Check the data thoroughly a soon a possible. Errors that occur during extraction can accumulate, if, for example, the target group ha been formed incorrectly and other controller must carry out their own extraction all over again for this reason. We will remove the data from our own system four month after it ha been handed over. We will retain the code key for pseudonymised data that will enable the data to be reproduced. Data permit are always for a fixed period. If data need to be saved for a purpose such a the verification of research or the you intend to renew your permit or the extraction must be updated at certain intervals, include these need in your application. Where can the data be analysed? The aggregated statistical data accessed via a data request is sent to the customer, and it can be analysed freely in accordance with a data utilisation plan. Data on individual that require a data permit can only be analysed in a secure environment. As a rule, the data will always be disclosed to Findatas secure operating environment . However, the Act on the Openness of Government Activities make it possible to disclose information to other operating environments, if necessary. Read more below in the section:. If an individual controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act ha made a decision on a data permit concerning data included in their own registers, they must disclose the data to a secure environment referred to in the Act a well. Amendment permit are also officially data permit (decisions to amend data permits), meaning the same requirement apply to these a to data permits. The exception to this is change to personal data processors. Findatas regulation set information security requirement for environment We have issued a regulation in accordance with the Secondary Use Act, which describes the requirement laid down other service provider secure operating environments. The regulation concern the secondary use of social and health data, and it will be applied to all the purpose provided in the Act for which a data permit is required. These purpose include scientific research, statistics, teaching and the planning and investigation task of the authorities. With regard to teaching, the regulation pertains to the preparation of teaching materials, not actual teaching. As of 1 May 2022, the implementation of the requirement laid down in the regulation is a prerequisite for the disclosure of data to be processed by the permit holder for secondary purpose in an environment other than Findatas secure operating environment Kapseli. In addition, the operating environment must be assessed by a data security assessment body that must issue a certificate on the assessment. The entry into force of the requirement doe not affect existing, valid permits. If data are processed on the basis of a valid permit previously granted, the processing of that data may continue in the same environment after 1 May 2022. The requirement take into account the solution in existing environment and enable the utilisation of different technical solutions. At it simplest, a secure environment can be a physically and technically secure space with a terminal device for analysing data that is isolated from the Internet and other devices. On the other hand, technical solution based on cloud service are also possible, a long a the service provider ensures the required level of data security. The operating environment of foreign researcher must also meet the data protection and security requirements. Clinically significant finding Based on the Section 55 of the Secondary Use Act, a data recipient can contact Findata if they make a clinically significant finding where a health-related risk could be prevented or the quality of their treatment improved. Findata establishes who the finding concern and then submits the information to a specialist at the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL). THLs appointed specialist ass the significance of the data and the expected benefit of taking action. If the benefit is assessed to be so clear that it would be important for the patient to receive treatment, the information is then disclosed to the wellbeing service county responsible for the patient treatment. An employee of the wellbeing service county contact the patient. Everyone ha the right to prohibit attempt to contact them based on section 55 of the Secondary Use Act. This prohibition can be set up in any operating unit that provides public health care and also online via My Kanta. Contact prohibition cannot be set up via Findata, Kela or THL. How to report a clinically significant finding to Findata Send an email to with a message stating that you wish to report a significant clinical finding. Do not send personal data by email! Please write Clinically significant finding in the subject line of the email. You will receive a reply with instruction on how to submit the information to Findata. Personal data will be transferred securely via Nextcloud. If you do not have Nextcloud account, create one by following the instruction on the page See the section Open the Nextcloud connection. Enter the diary number of the data permit from which you have made the clinically significant finding (enter section55 in the identifier-field) If you already have Nextcloud connection, we will share a Nextcloud folder with you for data transfer. You can transfer data following the instruction on the page See the section Encrypt your data and transfer it to Nextcloud. Once you have submitted your data, please let u know at . Submit the following data to Find The diary number of the data permit and the issuer. The pseudo-code or personal identification number of the person with a significant clinical finding. Information about the clinically significant finding that THL can use to ass the significance of the information. The name and contact detail of the contact person of the data permit, that can be provided to the THL for any further questions. Verifying the anonymity of result All those who process personal data must provide the result of their analysis in an anonymous form that cannot be used to reveal any data or aspect concerning individual participants. We ensure anonymity in line with the Secondary Use Act. This applies to all material that have been authorised under said Act. See the page, for the criterion on reviewing result and for example on the most common analysis types. Publishing result from Kapseli Data processing is done in Kapseli-environment and only the final analysis result are exported from Kapseli. The user produce the result in an anonymous format and Findata ensures the anonymity of the result in accordance with the Secondary Use Act. Verify the anonymity of the result intended for publication using the instruction found on this page. Transfer the result and the summary form to Findata via the Output (O:) drive in Kapseli. The summary form for the verification of the anonymity of result can be found in the Kapseli D-folder from folder named Kyttohjeet_User_guide_05062023. Compress the file and the summary form into a zip folder and name it a follows: Results_[Record_number_of_permit_decision]_[Kapseli_ID]_[Delivery_date] (e.g., Results_ THL_1234_14.02.00_2020_a01_15032021). Note: write the date in format ddmmyyyy. Create an empty text file named a ZZZ_READY.txt to the Output drive. This will initiate an automatic transfer of the zip folder. Make sure to double check the spelling of the ZZZ_READY.txt file. Transfers take place on the hour and in every 30 minutes. Transferred file will be automatically deleted from the Output drive. You can notify Findata of your transfer () if you wish and we will get back to you if we do not receive your transfer. There will be no verification that the transfer succeeded. Findata will review the request within 5 working day and submit the result via Nextcloud to the permit holder, o If you dont have a Nextcloud account, fill in the form Order a new Nextcloud account in. Note that if your result file are very large, the verification process may exceed the usual 5-day time limit. The time limit also applies only to the verification of the anonymity of results, not to the import of other file out of Kapseli (e.g. code files). Publishing result from other secure operating environment If you are processing data in a secure operating environment other than Findatas Kapseli and are ready to publish the results, follow the instruction below. Download the summary form and fill in the requested information:. Compress the file and the summary form into a zip folder and name it a follows: Results_[Record_number_of_permit_decision]_[Kapseli_ID]_[Delivery_date] (e.g., Results_ THL_1234_14.02.00_2020_a01_15032021). Note: write the date in format ddmmyyyy. You can deliver the result to Findata in two ways: If you have a Nextcloud-account, transfer the result via Nextcloud If you do not have a Nextcloud-account transfer the result via secure e-mail Note: do not send the result file to Findata a an attachment to a regular, non-secure e-mail. Contact Findata at Name the subject of your e-mail a Ensuring the anonymity of result Specify in your e-mail whether you are transferring the result via Nextcloud or via secure email. If you are using Nextcloud, please include the diary number of the data permit and your Nextcloud ID. Findata will provide you with the name of the folder where you can transfer your result and a zip folder containing the summary form. If you transfer your result by secure email, you will receive a secure e-mail from Findata to which you can reply to securely transfer the zip folder containing your result and the summary form. For more information on encryption and how to transfer data via Nextcloud, see the page. If there are any concern about the anonymity of the results, we will be in touch within seven working day of the result being submitted. If you do not hear from u within seven working day of submitting your results, you can proceed with the publication of your results. Apply for a data permit Do you need data on individuals? Apply for a data permit when you need data on individual from multiple public sector social and health controller or the private sector. Submit a data request Do you need anonymous statistical data? Submit a data request to use, when you need aggregated statistical data in table format or key figure from a social and health sector controller. Apply for an amendment permit Is your permit period about to expire or have there been change to the processor of personal data? Apply for an amendment permit from u when an amendment concern a controller permit or information. Check the correct address for the application Select the controller from which the data will be retrieved Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency (The Finnish Digital Agency) Finnish Centre for Pensions Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea Ministry of Social Affairs and Health National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Private service provider of social welfare or health care (one or many) Regional state administrative agency Several public service provider of social welfare or health care (more than one wellbeing service county etc.) Single public service provider of social welfare or health care (only one wellbeing service county etc.) Social Insurance Institution of Finland Kela Statistics Finland Apply permit from the controller in question. The exception is those controller who have delegated permit jurisdiction to Findata. Please note that Findata is responsible for data permit and amendment application whenever the data of data controller covered by the Act on secondary use is combined. When evaluating the competent authority, all data related to the application under the Act must be taken into account. Apply permit (s) from the controller in question. Findata is responsible for data permit of the Finnish Center for Pensions (ETK) and the Finnish Digital Agency (DVV) and / or Statistics Finland if the data are combined with data of other public organization under the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data (For Statistics Finland, at least two other organization are needed, for DVV and ETK, one is sufficient) data stored on Kanta service or to the register data of a private social or health care service provider. Apply permit from Findata. Findata is responsible for processing and making decision concerning data permit and amendment applications, when the application applies to: data from numerous public social and health sector controller register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Apply permit from Findata. The Regional Administrative Agencies (AVI) have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. Apply permit from Findata. National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. Apply for a data permit Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) ha delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. As far a THL is concerned, the delegation of jurisdiction doe not apply to it internal permit management the transfer of sample and data transferred to THL Biobank. Permit is applied from Statistics Finland and the respective data controller. Exceptions are the registrar who have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. We are responsible for data permit for data subject to the Secondary Act of Statistics Finland when they are combined to the information of at least two public organization covered by secondary law to data stored in Kanta service or to the register data of a private social or healthcare service organizer. Apply permit from Findata. Findata is responsible for processing and making decision concerning data permit and amendment applications, when the application applies to: data from numerous public social and health sector controller register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Please select at least one data controller or group. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 28.03.2024 Kapseli Kapseli is a Findata-provided secure operating environment for the processing of data on individuals. In this environment you can use the primary statistical software needed for analysing the data. Book a time for personal consultation You can book a time for personal consultation with an expert from Findata. Appointments are available four day a week and last for 20 minutes. The meeting are held remotely via Teams. We offer help in the following topics: General consultation on Findatas service Data permit applications, amendments, and data request Extraction description form and other form Ordering Findatas secure processing environment Kapseli, pausing, and data storage service You can see the available time below. After booking, you will receive a confirmation email and a downloadable calendar reminder. We will send the link to the Teams meeting later. The personal consultation service is provided a a part of the funded by the European Union. What is Kapseli? Read a description of Kapseli, and how you can begin use. How much doe Kapseli cost? See the available machine package and their prices. What software doe Kapseli include? See Kapselis standard programme and their versions. Can Kapseli be customized to your own needs? It is possible to customize Kapseli to be more comprehensive than the basic package. How to use Kapseli Read the starter guide or hop on for the more detailed operating manual. Kapseli pause service You can pause your Kapseli for a set period of time. Data storage service The storage service enables long-term storage of research data after analysis. When will the data be erased from Kapseli? See your option after the expiry of Kapseli order. What is Kapseli? Read a description of Kapseli, and how you can begin use. Kapseli is a Findata-provided secure operating environment for the processing for data on individual that wa access with a data permit. Kapseli is used via a remote connection by logging into it in a browser. Kapseli is always data permit-specific, meaning that a new Kapseli operating environment is always created for each set of data accessed via a single data permit. A fee will be charged for each permit Kapseli environment and the same Kapseli environment cannot be used for the analysis of data accessed with different data permits. You can use Kapseli, once we have approved your permit application we have aggregated the data from the controller you have completed the Kapseli operating environment order form and we have entered into an agreement with you on the use of Kapseli. How to order Kapseli . From the top menu select Submit application Scroll down and select Order or update of the Kapseli operating environment or the data storage service from under Select a new application form from below and click Fill in the application. Complete the application form Enter your own name in the applicant field After this, using the Invite a member button add all the person and email address that need user right to Kapseli The invited person will join using multi factor authentication Complete the rest of the form Please note, that R-Tools is not automatically installed in Kapseli. If you need R-Tools, indicate this in the additional information section of the form. Finally, select Send application from the Actions section. Theres a monthly maintenance outage on the Thursday of the week after the second Tuesday of the month between 8 a.m. and 12 p.m. The timing stem from Microsofts Windows updates, which always occur on the second Tuesday of the month. Kapseli may malfunction during this time, but it will be rectified after a maintenance outage. Dates of monthly maintenance outage in 2024 18.1.2024 22.2.2024 21.3.2024 18.4.2024 23.5.2024 20.6.2024 18.7.2024 22.8.2024 19.9.2024 17.10.2024 21.11.2024 19.12.2024 Contact u Kapseli Inquiries related to Kapseli operating environment How much doe Kapseli cost? See the available machine package and their prices. The computing package described below and other detail are selected on the order form. The user fee for Kapseli is based on the selected computing package and possible additional orders, such a computing capacity need exceeding XL or for the user own software. Please see our page for all current prices. By default, all computing package have the following storage modes: Work: 300 GB Data: 300 GB Backup: 5 GB Output: 10 GB The performance of Kapseli depends on the number of concurrent user and the load generated by the software used. One machine package (S/M/L/XL) is designed for approximately ten users. The price includes user right for up to 10 users. It is not advisable to add more than ten user to a single machine package to avoid overloading the performance. However, if the subscriber wish to have more than 10 user on a single machine package, we will charge additional user usage fee monthly at a rate of EUR 16.16 + 24% VAT per user. It is also possible to distribute data-specific processing across multiple parallel machine packages. Each of these machine package must be ordered separately a individual packages. Ordering parallel machine package may require customization, for which Findata will charge according to their pricing schedule. Computing package Kapseli price are commercially priced fee-based service to which VAT of 24% is added. The price in the price list do not include VAT. For example, the total cost of the Kapseli S machine package with Windows operating system is 182,90 per month ( 147,50 + (0,24 x 147,50) = 182,90). ProductFeaturesWindows (VAT not included)Academic licenceWindows (VAT not included)Linux (VAT not included)Kapseli S 8 GB RAM 4 cores147,50 EUR/month (1 770,00 EUR/year)136,67 EUR/month (1 640,00 EUR/year)108,75 EUR/month (1 305,00 EUR/year)Kapseli M 16 GB RAM 6 cores199,17 EUR/month(2 390,00 EUR/year)176,67 EUR/month(2 120,00 EUR/year)138,33 EUR/month(1 660,00 EUR/year)Kapseli L 32 GB RAM 8 cores296,67 EUR/month(3 560,00 EUR/year)244,58 EUR/month(2 935,00 EUR/year)195,42 EUR/month(2 345,00 EUR/year)Kapseli XL64 GB RAM 8 cores485,42 EUR/month(5 825,00 EUR/year)399,17 EUR/month(4 790,00 EUR/year)275,00 EUR/month(3 300,00 EUR/year) Customisation ProductFeaturesPrice (VAT not included)Working time costsWorking time cost for customizing the remote environment, e.g. installation of the user own software in Kapseli package (with the user own licences).90,00 EUR/hourChange of processing systemFixed price based on the working time costs.470,00 EUR/changeTechnical customizationTechnical customization of the computing package or Kapseli subscription.According to separate offer We reserve the right to change the price for Kapseli, if procurement cost change independent of Findatas operations. What software doe Kapseli include? See Kapselis standard programme and their versions. All new Kapseli package include the software according to the table below a standard. We will expand the software selection a needed. For previously ordered Kapseli environments, software version will be updated upon the subscriber request. If you are using an older version and wish to update to the one listed below, please arrange a scheduled update by sending an email to . Include the Kapseli ID (e.g., A01) and the software to be updated in your message. Linux CentOS 7 SoftwareVersionFurther informationEmacsGolangLibreOfficeBase, Calc, Draw, Impress, Math, WriterNextflowPigzPython3.7.9.Includes the following packages: tensorflow nltk spacy scikit-learn seaborn plotly bokeh pydot xgboost lightgbm catboost eli5 torch kera dist-keras elephas gensim scrapy beautifulsoup4 numpy scipy panda statsmodels matplotlib pyfuse3 crypt4gh trio httpx qrcodeR + R studio4.2.1Includes CRAN library packages. Please note that R-Tools is not automatically installed in Kapseli. If you need R-Tools, indicate this in the additional information of the subscription form.VS Code Windows Server 2016 Standard SoftwareVersionFurther information7-Zip23Adobe Acrobat Reader DCUp to dateAnaconda 32023.07Uses Python Wheel 3.11GeoDa1.22Git2.43.0Google ChromeUp to dateIBM SPSS Statistics29If the software license requires an update, notify .LibreOffice7.6Base, Calc, Draw, Impress, Math, WriterLyX2.3MiKTeX23.1Notepad++8QGIS3.32R4.3Includes CRAN library packages. Please note that R-Tools is not automatically installed in Kapseli. If you need R-Tools, indicate this in the additional information of the subscription form.RStudio2023.06.2+561SAS9.4If the software license requires an update, notify .Stata16If the software license requires an update, notify .WinPython3.11 If you need other software in addition to the standard software, it is possible to use them by additional order. Orders for additional software are made in connection with the Kapseli order or while using the Kapseli by updating the Kapseli order in the transaction service. Can Kapseli be customized to your own needs? It is possible to customize Kapseli to be more comprehensive than the basic package. The most added software for Kapseli SoftwareVersionPriceMS Office -software(Excel, Word, PowerPoint)Newest versionInstallation 90.00 per hour + VAT 24% billed according to the actual working hours. Estimate: 1 hour. Monthly fee: 18,54 /month +VAT 24%.Rtools4.0 or 4.2Installation free of charge Software that have previously been approved and installed in Kapseli operating environment are listed below. For these programs, the installation cost is estimated to be 13 working hours. Costs 90.00 per hour + VAT 24% are billed according to the actual working hours. Additional software can be ordered with a Kapseli application in our e-service. You can get more information by contacting . SoftwareVersionJavalastly recommendedMySQL8.0.26MySQL Community Server8.0.26MySQL Workbench8.0.26Gvim / Vimlastly recommendedGit-annexlastly recommendedMicrosoft Visual C++14.00 or lastly recommendedGIMP2.10 or lastly recommendedMicrosoft Power BI desktoplastly recommendedVSCode + Julia extensionlastly recommended Importing own software into Kapseli If the software you need is not listed in the table above, the software can be installed in Kapseli if the necessary condition are met. Additional software can be either open access or license based. If the software requires a license, the customer is responsible for the licenses. An official license and installation instruction must be found for the software, and the software information security and compatibility with the operating environment are checked before installation. The customer must provide Findata with the information necessary to install and use the program. Regarding additional programs, the requirement for use in Kapseli should be considered. The capsule doe not have a network connection, so the program must be able to be installed and used in a closed environment. We charge 90.00 euros/hour + VAT 24% for the installation of own tools/software in the Kapseli. If bringing the software to Kapseli requires more detailed and investigative work from Findata specialists, we charge 135.00 euros/hour + VAT 24% for the expert work according to the actual working hours. Increasing the performance or storage space in Kapseli It is possible to improve the performance of Kapseli by increasing the machine package you are using (S, M, L or XL). Ordering the machine package is free of charge and you pay the monthly price of the new machine package according to the . The order to change the machine package is made in our e-service at . If you need a more customized performance from Kapseli, please contact u via email . The amount of storage space in Kapseli can be increased to meet the need of larger materials. Adding storage space to the Kapseli is done in the e-service by updating the current Kapseli subscription or in a new Kapseli application. Increased storage spacePriceInfo100GB10,8 /month + VAT. 24 %You can increase the storage space in unit of 100GB a much a you want. We are pleased to help, contact u at by e-mail. How to use Kapseli Read the starter guide or hop on for the more detailed operating manual. Findatas secure operating environment Kapseli is a virtual machine, the use of which is very similar to that of the Windows remote desktop. The Windows remote desktop in turn is very similar to a computer own desktop. To use Kapseli log in to it remote desktop with a browser. Log in will require strong, two-step identification, using Suomi.fi e-Identification and a single-use password supplied by text message. Recommended browser include Firefox, Chrome and Safari. The user own computer need not have any special level of performance a the computing capacity come from Kapseli. A sufficiently fast internet connection will make use easier. The IP address used with Kapseli must be static, i.e. most often the organization IP address. In general, when working remotely, the IP address of your own organization can be accessed via a remote connection, e.g. a VPN connection. If there is change in the organization connections, ask your organization IT support about the entire address space of IP addresses, so that the change doe not hinder the use of Kapseli. Kapseli cannot be used via private IP addresses. The most common word processing and statistic software can be used in Kapseli. Our range of software will be updated a operation develop. If you need additional software other than those available a standard, these can be provided by additional order. Orders for additional software are made in connection with the Kapseli order or while using the Kapseli by updating the Kapseli order in . The additional software can be either access or licence based. If software requires a licence, the customer will be responsible for acquiring a licence for themself. We will charge a fee of 90.00 euros/hour (+VAT 24%) for the installation of the user own tools/software to the Kapseli machine package. See also: Can I transfer file to and from Kapseli myself? All transfer of information to Kapseli and out of Kapseli happens via Findata. Kapselis remote desktop doe not allow access to the internet, and the transfer and copy of information from one own computer to the remote desktop is not possible. Please find instruction on page Controllers will send the data issued with a data permit to Findata, which will then transfer these to Kapseli. At Findata, the data will be pseudonymised and processed is accordance with the information principle of minimisation before it is transferred to the customer use. The principle of minimisation mean that the customer is given personal data for processing only in the scope that these are absolutely necessary for the purpose in question. The result of an analysis based on data can be exported from the system via a check procedure by Findata. Findata check that the result are sufficiently anonymous, after which the result can also be published. In addition, we can, when necessary, transfer the data to a secure operating environment other than Kapseli. This can only be done when absolutely necessary, however, and this other user environment must comply with the Findata data security requirements. See also: Use of Kapseli on the basis of permit issued by other authority Kapseli can also be used in situation where some other authority ha issued a permit. In this case, we will charge for 2 hour of work (EUR 147 /hour) related to receiving and checking the data and transferring them to Kapseli. A more detailed description on how to order and use Kapseli is provided above. Kapseli pause service You can pause your Kapseli operating environment for a set period of time. You can pause your Kapseli processing environment, after which the current machine package will be disabled for the duration of the pause. During the pause, we maintain the processing environment and the material within, but the user do not have access to it. During the pause, the Kapseli order must be valid, but only the monthly pause fee will be charged. The standard Kapseli condition are also valid for the duration of the pause. When the scheduled pause ends, user can start to log in to Kapseli once again. You will begin to be charged the monthly machine package fee for Kapseli. The pause can be ordered through our customer service. The minimum pause is two calendar month and the maximum pause is the duration of the Kapseli order in question. The period of notice for the pause is one calendar month. The processing time for all Kapseli order is one month. Processing time for pause service The processing time for all Kapseli order is one month. The minimum pause is two calendar month and the maximum pause is the duration of the Kapseli order in question. The period of notice for the pause is one calendar month. Example 1: Kapseli wa originally ordered for the period 1.1.202231.12.2025, and the orderer would like to pause the environment for the period 1.10.20221.12.2023. Order the pause no later than August 31 2022, because there is one month processing time for orders. Example 2: Kapseli ha been put on pause from 1 October 2022 to 1 December 2023, but they want to use it again a early a 1 July 2023. Terminate the pause no later than 30 April 2023. Orders have a one-month processing time and the pause service ha a one-month period of notice. Pricing Kapseli price are commercially priced fee-based service to which VAT of 24% is added. The price in the price list do not include VAT. For example, the pause service processing fee is in total 347,20 ( 280,00 + (0,24 x 280,00) = 347,20). ProductPrice + VAT 24 % Further informationPause processing fee280,00 EURThe processing fee is invoiced a part of new pause order and when ordering an extension to a pause.Monthly fee46,00 EURBilled per month for the duration of the pause order. Data storage service for Kapseli user A data storage service is available for Kapseli user to store research data after the analysis phase. The data storage service enables a storage of research data and script after analysis, if there is a justified need. This could be, for example, peer review. You can order the storage service for a minimum of one year and need a valid data permit for the entire storage period. Kapseli processing environment and storage service cannot be used at the same time. Materials can only be located in one of them at a time. How to order the storage service? The storage service is an additional Kapseli service and is only available for those with a Kapseli order. The storage service must be ordered at least four week before the end of your Kapseli subscription. At the moment, it is not possible to order only the storage service. If the data ha been analysed in another secure processing environment than Kapseli, you must first order Kapseli and then the storage service. The storage service can be ordered for a minimum of one year and requires a valid data permit for the entire storage period. If the data permit is not valid for the entire desired storage period, you should first apply for an extension of the validity of the data permit with a data permit amendment application in . If the data permit ha not been granted by Findata, we request that you contact the data permit issuer to extend the validity period. The storage service can be ordered for a maximum of five year at a time and only a representative of the permit holder can place order related to the storage service of the material. The continuation of the order is possible in accordance with the current term of service and price list. Order a continuation of the storage service at least one month before the end of the previous subscription. In order for the order to continue smoothly, ensure that the data permit cover the entire planned retention period when placing the order. How doe the storage service work? When the storage service is deployed, Kapseli and any software customisations will be removed. The storage service store the material produced with the data permit, a well a any file related to the research, such a code scripts. All file from the Kapseli D:, W:, and B: drive will be transferred to the storage service. The file format doe not matter. Keep these in mind It is your responsibility to store the data in a file format that allows it to be processed after restoration. The data will be transferred to the storage service in the status indicated by the start date of the data storage service. In connection with the implementation of the data storage service, you will be sent a security email with an encryption key and a unique identifier. The most reliable way to open the encryption key file is with Notepad. The encryption key and the unique identifier are required to re-implement the data. Without these, it is not possible to return the data from the storage service. It is your responsibility to keep the encryption key and the unique identifier safe during the storage service. Cancellation of the storage service If you want to terminate your storage service order before your order ends, you must order it separately in . The cancellation must be ordered at least one month before the desired cancellation date. After your storage service order ha ended, the material will be removed from the service. Findata will not store the data after the order ha ended. Returning material for use in the Kapseli or other secure processing environment If necessary, the data can be returned for analysis in a new Kapseli processing environment and transferred back to the storage service after processing. Order a transfer from the storage service to Kapseli at least one month before the desired date. To return the material, place an order for Kapseli before sending the return request. The data set from the data storage system can also be transferred to another secure processing environment that ha been accepted to the Toini secondary use register maintained by Valvira. For the use of Kapseli or data transfer to the secure processing environment of a third-party service provider, we will charge the work cost for the starting hour in accordance with the Kapseli price list. Pricing for the storage service The price of the storage service is reviewed annually. The processing fee and the first 12 month fee will be invoiced at the time of setup. After the first year, you will be invoiced in advance every six months. Kapseli price are commercially priced fee-based service to which VAT of 24% is added. The price in the price list do not include VAT. For example, the storage service processing fee is 570,40 in total ( 460,00 + (0,24 x 460,00) = 570,40). ProductPrice + VAT 24 %Further informationStorage service processing fee460,00 EURA processing fee and a minimum order of 12 month will be invoiced in connection with a new storage order.Monthly charge for the storage service per 0.5 TB7,00 EUR/month (42,00 EUR/6 months)Billed every six months. When will the data be erased from Kapseli? See your option after the expiry of the Kapseli operating environment order. At the expiry of the Kapseli operating environment order, user are disconnected from Kapseli and the data is permanently erased. Findata doe not retain a copy of the data. The data will be permanently deleted even if the data permit is valid after the expiry of the Kapseli order. A data permit is not a legal basis for the storage of data. The storage of data requires an active order for an audited operating environment or a storage service. Alternatively, you can continue using Kapseli by placing a new Kapseli order in the e-service, continue using Kapseli and pause the use of Kapseli for a fixed period of time (a valid Kapseli order is required for pausing the service) or order a long-term data storage service for the data. If the customer fails to inform Findata of the follow-up measure after the expiry of the Kapseli order, we will permanently delete the Kapseli operating environment, and any data set and other file and software stored in Kapseli. A valid data permit is a prerequisite for pausing or continuing the use of the Kapseli or ordering of the data storage service. You can apply for the extension of the validity of a data permit with a data permit amendment application. Read more Order Kapseli or update your valid Kapseli subscription: Frequently asked question How to order Kapseli . From the top menu select Submit application Scroll down and select Order or update of the Kapseli operating environment or the data storage service from under Select a new application form from below and click Fill in the application. Complete the application form Enter your own name in the applicant field After this, using the Invite a member button add all the person and email address that need user right to Kapseli The invited person will join using multi factor authentication Complete the rest of the form Please note, that R-Tools is not automatically installed in Kapseli. If you need R-Tools, indicate this in the additional information section of the form. Finally, select Send application from the Actions section. I cant log in to Kapseli what should I do? Before logging in, please make sure that your username is registered and ready to use. If you are not sure whether your account is ready for use, contact your Findata contact person or the Kapseli helpdesk: kapseli@findata.fi. How to log in to Kapseli Installto your phone and activate it. The developer is Duo Security Inc. If youve already installed and activated the app go to point 2. Installing: find Duo Mobile from your phone app store and install it. Activating: the phone number reported when ordering Kapseli will get an automatic activating message for Duo Mobile. The app is activated by clicking the link in the activating message. Log in Kapseli atusing your computer browser. Choose the identification method from the list that you chose while registering. Choose the operating environment youre going to use. If you have just one operating environment in use go to the next section. After choosing the environment the system go to the second phase of identification. The second phase of identification. Log in the operating environment. Youll get a notification about logging in to Duo Mobile. To approve the log in choose Approve in Duo Mobile. I cant open the Kapseli login page what should I do? If you get an error message, e.g. 400 bad request header field too long, try the following: Make sure you are using your organisation network (VPN). Try to log in to Kapseli with another browser. Supported browser are Chrome and Firefox. Please note that the Virtu-service doe not work in Firefox. Try logging in to Kapseli in incognito mode or delete cooky from your browser. The problem may also occur because you are trying to log in from a different IP address than the one you have provided to Findata. The IP address you have provided may be a private one, or it may be a single address from a wider network range of the organisation, in which case it may vary within the range. In these cases, please check with your organisation support to find out what your correct IP address is. It can be a single public IP address or the IP address of an entire network domain. Deliver your correct IP address to the Kapseli helpdesk so that the firewall can be opened. If these step do not help, please contact the Kapseli helpdesk and explain the step you have taken in your message. Kapseli Helpdesk: Can the data I received via Findata be combined to other information? Data referred to in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data can be combined to other information, such a data a person ha collected themselves or data accessed with some other permit. As a rule, Findata or a statistic authority combine the data. If you wish to combine data later on to data you have received via Findata, send an amendment application for the data to be combined. For more information please see the . If you are applying to have data accessed with an individual consent to be combined with data that Findata ha issued a permit for, the research subject notification and consent model must be attached to the application. If the data have been accessed with the permission of other actors, list the following information in the application: Permit record number, issuer, date of decision. If the permit process is pending, the party to whom the application wa submitted and the permit process start date. A brief description of the information content of other data. Do not attach permit for other data to the application. The application processor will ask for these separately of necessary. See the instruction for sending data on the page . How do I safely exit Kapseli? There are two way to stop using the remote desktop. Sign outis located behind the human figure at the bottom left. You should use this option when you have finished processing the data. When you exit from Sign out, you release the resource on the remote workstation. Disconnectis located behind the Power button. Use this option if you need to leave analysis running when you leave the workstation. The resource will then remain reserved. After both options, you will see the optionsReconnectandLogout. Select Logout when stopping the use of the system. Close your browser unless you want to log back in. How doe the data controller provide the extracted data to Findata? For instruction on how data controller can submit extracted data, see the . Can I import my own software into Kapseli? It is possible to import your own software into Kapseli via Findata. Additional software can be either open access or license based. If the software requires a license, the customer is responsible for the licenses. An official license and installation instruction must be found for the software, and the software information security and compatibility with the operating environment are checked before installation. You must provide Findata with the information necessary to install and use the program. The installation of additional software is carried out by Findata and is charged on a per-workload basis. Can I put my Kapseli subscription on pause? You can pause your Kapseli operating environment, after which the current machine package will be disabled for the duration of the pause. During the pause, we maintain the operating environment and the material within, but the user do not have access to it. During the pause, the Kapseli order must be valid, but only the monthly pause fee will be charged. The standard Kapseli condition are also valid for the duration of the pause. When the scheduled pause ends,users can start to log in to Kapseli once again. You will begin to be charged the monthly machine package fee for Kapseli. The pause can be ordered through our customer service. The minimum pause is two calendar month and the maximum pause is the duration of the Kapseli order in question. The period of notice for the pause is one calendar month. The processing time for all Kapseli order is one month. Pricing: ProductPriceFurther informationPause processing feeEUR 245,00 + VAT 24%The processing fee is invoiced a part of new pause order and when ordering an extension to a pause.Monthly feeEUR 87,00 + VAT 24%Billed per month for the duration of the pause order. How do I update my software licence? SPSS, SAS and Stata require a valid software licence to work. Please send an email to with the Kapseli ID (e.g. A01) and the software for which the license need to be updated. The DuoMobile app activation link doe not work what to do? The activation link is valid for 7 days. If the link ha expired, contact the Kapseli Helpdesk to request a new activation link. Kapseli Helpdesk: My phone ha changed what to do? Contact the Kapseli Helpdesk and request a new activation link. Kapseli Helpdesk: The program freeze or run out of memory what to do? Log out of Kapseli by clicking on the Log out button. Note: Do not disconnect! The Logout button can be found in the bottom left corner of the Windows Start menu. It is located behind the character icon. Once you have logged out of the Kapseli, log back in. This will end the entire session and often help in situation where temporary file are the cause of a hang or memory loss. You can check your machine resource usage during analysis from the Performance and Users tab of the Task Manager. This allows you to see if the program is running out of memory and how much each user is consuming resources. You can find Task Manager in the Windows menu. If these measure do not help, contact the Kapseli Helpdesk and tell them about the measure you have taken in your message. Kapseli Helpdesk: I have not used Kapseli for more than three months, now I can no longer access the remote environment what do I do? If you have not logged into Kapseli for three months, your DUO Mobile activation period will expire. You will receive a message saying User not enrolled in Duo. In these cases, please contact the Kapseli Help Desk and ask to reopen your DUO connection. Kapseli Helpdesk: Maintenance ha made fix or update to Kapseli, but they dont show up what do I do? Make sure that you have disconnected or logged out of Kapseli after receiving a response from the administrator that repair or change have been made. Some change do not take effect in the middle of a session, so you will need to log back into Kapseli for them to take effect. If the problem is not resolved after logging back in, please report it to the Kapseli Helpdesk: . My account is locked what to do? If your account is locked out, you will receive an error message saying Your account ha been locked out due to excessive authentication failures. Please contact your administrator. Account lockout is usually caused by too many login attempts. A locked account will usually unlock within 20 minutes. If your account doe not unlock within 20 minutes, please contact the Kapseli Helpdesk: . What is anonymisation and pseudonymisation? Anonymisation mean the transformation of personal data into a form that irreversibly prevents the identification of an individual person. This may mean, for example, removing direct identifier and simplifying the data to a general level so that personal data cannot be reconstituted in any way. Pseudonymisation refers to the transformation of personal data, for example into a coded form. In this case, name and personal identifier can be removed and replaced by another unique identifier, i.e. a code. Often a code key is kept to restore direct personal data to the data. Pseudonymised data are still personal data. Read more Standard term of use Users of the Kapseli agree to abide by the standard term and conditions, which can be found here. Producing anonymous result On this page youll find instruction for producing anonymous results. Kapseli pricing See the computing package available and their prices. News Findata successfully lead development of Common European Application Forms in HealthData@EU Pilot 02.05.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.04.2024 Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.04.2024 A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 25.04.2024 Pricing Our price are based on . The current price are valid from 1 January to 31 December 2024. On this page The total price for Findata service comprises four component The decision fee for data permit, amendment permit or data request issued by Findata The decision fee are always fixed-price and based on the payment regulation of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. There are also different payment category for different type of permits, which you can find below. With the exception of the cost of processing a lapsed application, which is based on an hourly rate. No VAT is charged on public law service or decision fees. Costs incurred by data controller for the extraction and delivery of data, based on each controller own regulations. The controller determine whether or not to add VAT to the extraction cost on the basis of the final payer. Working hour used by Findata for combining, pre-processing, pseudonymising and anonymising the data The hourly rate for data processing is fixed and based on the decree of public charges. No VAT is charged. Monthly fee for the secure processing environment Kapseli, if you use Kapseli for data analysis. Kapseli is always the primary secure processing environment for analysing data. VAT will be added to the monthly fee. Data permit Price categoryCriteriaPriceData permit for a thesisA data permit related to a thesis for an applicant who is domiciled in Finland or another EU or EEA country.If the project produce several thesis or other output not related to the thesis, this is a normal or extensive information permit.250,00 EURLimited data permitThe processing of the application take le than 7 hour and the applicant place of business is an EU or EEA country. For example, new research question without change to the data or new extractions.300,00 EURNormal data permitThe application concern the data of 1 to 15 data controller and the applicant is established in an EU or EEA country.If the extraction description is modified at the initiative of the applicant in the middle of the application processing process after receiving the cost estimates, or the processing take more than 14 hour for some other reason, this is an extensive data permit, cf. below.1400,00 EURNormal data permit for researcher-driven researchData permit for the applicant whose place of operation is in Finland or another EU or EEA country, with a processing time of 7 hour or more but le than 14 hours, and it is research that is conducted without external funding or with funding from a public health care unit, university, research institute or other public or non-profit association. The application must be accompanied by an explanation of how the research will be funded.700,00 EURExtensive data permitYou may need an extensive data permit e.g. if one or more of the following is met: The application concern the data of more than 15 data controller The extraction description is modified at the initiative of the applicant after receiving the cost estimates, ie more than one round of cost estimate is required from one or more controllers2000,00 EURExtensive data permit for researcher-driven researchData permit for the applicant whose place of operation is in Finland or another EU or EEA country, with a processing time of 14 hour or more, and it is research that is conducted without external funding or with funding from a public health care unit, university, research institute or other public or non-profit association. The application must be accompanied by an explanation of how the research will be funded.1 000,00 EURData permit for outside the EU or EEA areaData permit for the applicant whose place of business is in a country outside the EU or EEA.3 000,00 EURNo VAT is charged on permit decisions. Amendment permit Price categoryCriteriaPriceMinor amendment or changeThe application seek the following amendment or changes: extension of the permit modification of the person authorized to process the data a change in the controller of the material released with the data changing the data processing environment from Findatas Kapseli remote access system to another service provider secure processing environment.300,00 EUROther amendment or changeThe application seek one or more of the following change or amendments: the extension of the monitoring year to the authorization granted by Findata, provided that the person to be examined and the data to be extracted remain the same extension of the processing of the data by way of derogation from an authorization granted outside the EU or EEA country adding variable to the data collection after the extraction ha already taken place the addition of data under other legislation in derogation from the authorization granted.600,00 EURNo VAT is charged on permit decisions. Data request decision Price categoryCriteriaPriceData request for a thesisA data request is related to a thesis for an applicant who is domiciled in Finland or another EU or EEA country.If the project produce several thesis or other output not related to the thesis, this is a normal or extensive information permit.250,00 EURData request decision for researcher-driven researchResearch is conducted without external funding or with funding from a public health care unit, university, research institute or other public or non-profit association. The applicant must be established in an EU or EEA country and the application must be accompanied by an explanation of how the research will be funded.1 250,00 EURData requestAll other data requests.2 500,00 EURNo VAT is charged on data request decisions. Expiry decision A fee is charged for expired permit applications. The amount of this fee depends on the permit applied for and the stage to which the processing of the application ha progressed before the applicant withdraws it. How doe an application processing proceed? The processing of application can be divided into five stages, which can be preceded by the applicant independently contacting to a controller. The process is shown in text after the graph. The applicant contact controller directly before sending an application, if they need additional information on the data or variable or they need help with drawing up an extraction description. The applicant can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. If the customer and the controller contact person have agreed for example that a clinician, who is part of the research team will extract the data free of charge, the application Additional information section should include information on who this wa agreed on with and in what context. The applicant submits their application or requested additional information to Findata in the e-services at If the applicant is only submitting additional information, the clarification can, depending on the case, also be submitted by e-mail. Our application processor check application and their appendix to ensure that these contain all the necessary information. Where necessary, we will return an incomplete application for completion or we will submit a request for further clarification to the applicant. When all the extraction description have been completed, we will send additional information and cost estimate request to the controller whose information is requested in the application. The purpose of the request is to determine the feasibility of the requested extraction and the maximum cost estimate for the extraction. According to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, the controller have 15 working day to respond to this request. Where necessary, controller may ask for additional detail to the request, in which case we will forward the question to the applicant. At this stage, we will also determine Findatas internal cost estimate, which comprises our own data processing costs. Once all the cost estimate have been received, the applicant will be presented with a final extraction description and a maximum cost estimate for approval. The applicant must accept both in order for the permit to be granted. Please note that it will not be possible to change the extraction condition after this, and that change made to the extracted data later on will require a separate application. We at Findata will issue a positive data permit or data request decision. Please note, that data permit are always for a fixed period. If data need to be saved for a purpose such a the verification of research or the you intend to renew your permit or the extraction must be updated at certain intervals, include these need in your application. Payment categoryCriteriaPriceFree of charge expiry decisionThe applicant withdraws the application before Findata ha started processing it.EUR 0,00Charge of approx. 20% of the permit feeThe applicant withdraws the application when Findata ha started processing the application but before the cost estimate request for data extraction have been sent to the controllers.Hourly charge of 88,00 EUR /hourCharge of approx. 60% of the permit feeThe applicant withdraws the application after the cost estimate request for data extraction have been sent to the controller but before a cost estimate summary ha been sent to the applicant.Hourly charge of 88,00 EUR /hourCharge of approx. 75% of the permit feeThe applicant withdraws the application after receiving the cost estimate summary.Hourly charge of 88,00 EUR /hourNo VAT is charged on expiry decisions. Ready-made datasets Price categoryCriteriaPriceFindatas ready-made datasetData permit for Findatas ready-made dataset, when no other data are combined with it.For the FinRegistry data, in addition to the data permit fee, Findatas extraction cost are charged based on the amount of work. The COVID-19 material consists of pre-assembled modules, so no extraction cost are charged.For COVID-19 data set, the delivery of the data to Kapseli is free of charge. Delivery to another service provider processing environment: two working hours, i.e. 294 EUR (VAT +0%). We inform the customer of the cost if the estimate exceeds two hours.300,00 EURNo VAT is charged on permit decisions. Findatas hourly based fee Price categoryCriteriaPriceData processingHourly fee for data combining, pre-processing, pseudonymisation and anonymisation. Minimum one hour.147,00 EUR/hourCosts of processing a lapsed applicationIf the application for a data permit or data request is canceled or not completed after the start of the processing, we will charge a proportion of the workload.88,00 EUR/hourHourly payment are service under public law, which are not subject to VAT. Kapseli secure processing environment By default, all computing package have the following storage modes: Work: 300 GB Data: 300 GB Backup: 5 GB Output: 10 GB The performance of Kapseli depends on the number of concurrent user and the load generated by the software used. One machine package (S/M/L/XL) is designed for approximately ten users. The price includes user right for up to 10 users. It is not advisable to add more than ten user to a single machine package to avoid overloading the performance. However, if the subscriber wish to have more than 10 user on a single machine package, we will charge additional user usage fee monthly at a rate of EUR 16.16 + 24% VAT per user. It is also possible to distribute data-specific processing across multiple parallel machine packages. Each of these machine package must be ordered separately a individual packages. Ordering parallel machine package may require customization, for which Findata will charge according to their pricing schedule. Computing package Kapseli price are commercially priced fee-based service to which VAT of 24% is added. The price in the price list do not include VAT. For example, the total cost of the Kapseli S machine package with Windows operating system is 182,90 per month ( 147,50 + (0,24 x 147,50) = 182,90). ProductFeaturesWindows (VAT not included)Academic licenceWindows (VAT not included)Linux (VAT not included)Kapseli S 8 GB RAM 4 cores147,50 EUR/month (1 770,00 EUR/year)136,67 EUR/month (1 640,00 EUR/year)108,75 EUR/month (1 305,00 EUR/year)Kapseli M 16 GB RAM 6 cores199,17 EUR/month(2 390,00 EUR/year)176,67 EUR/month(2 120,00 EUR/year)138,33 EUR/month(1 660,00 EUR/year)Kapseli L 32 GB RAM 8 cores296,67 EUR/month(3 560,00 EUR/year)244,58 EUR/month(2 935,00 EUR/year)195,42 EUR/month(2 345,00 EUR/year)Kapseli XL64 GB RAM 8 cores485,42 EUR/month(5 825,00 EUR/year)399,17 EUR/month(4 790,00 EUR/year)275,00 EUR/month(3 300,00 EUR/year) Customisation ProductFeaturesPrice (VAT not included)Working time costsWorking time cost for customizing the remote environment, e.g. installation of the user own software in Kapseli package (with the user own licences).90,00 EUR/hourChange of processing systemFixed price based on the working time costs.470,00 EUR/changeTechnical customizationTechnical customization of the computing package or Kapseli subscription.According to separate offer We reserve the right to change the price for the processing environment if change take place to the procurement cost for the remote access environment independently of Findatas operations. Kapseli pause service You can pause your Kapseli processing environment, after which the current machine package will be disabled for the duration of the pause. During the pause, we maintain the processing environment and the material within, but the user do not have access to it. During the pause, the Kapseli order must be valid, but only the monthly pause fee will be charged. The standard Kapseli condition are also valid for the duration of the pause. When the scheduled pause ends, user can start to log in to Kapseli once again. You will begin to be charged the monthly machine package fee for Kapseli. The pause can be ordered through our customer service. The minimum pause is two calendar month and the maximum pause is the duration of the Kapseli order in question. The period of notice for the pause is one calendar month. The processing time for all Kapseli order is one month. Processing time for pause service The processing time for all Kapseli order is one month. The minimum pause is two calendar month and the maximum pause is the duration of the Kapseli order in question. The period of notice for the pause is one calendar month. Example 1: Kapseli wa originally ordered for the period 1.1.202231.12.2025, and the orderer would like to pause the environment for the period 1.10.20221.12.2023. Order the pause no later than August 31 2022, because there is one month processing time for orders. Example 2: Kapseli ha been put on pause from 1 October 2022 to 1 December 2023, but they want to use it again a early a 1 July 2023. Terminate the pause no later than 30 April 2023. Orders have a one-month processing time and the pause service ha a one-month period of notice. Pricing Kapseli price are commercially priced fee-based service to which VAT of 24% is added. The price in the price list do not include VAT. For example, the pause service processing fee is in total 347,20 ( 280,00 + (0,24 x 280,00) = 347,20). ProductPrice + VAT 24 % Further informationPause processing fee280,00 EURThe processing fee is invoiced a part of new pause order and when ordering an extension to a pause.Monthly fee46,00 EURBilled per month for the duration of the pause order. Data storage service The data storage service enables a storage of research data and script after analysis, if there is a justified need. This could be, for example, peer review. You can order the storage service for a minimum of one year and need a valid data permit for the entire storage period. Kapseli processing environment and storage service cannot be used at the same time. Materials can only be located in one of them at a time. How to order the storage service? The storage service is an additional Kapseli service and is only available for those with a Kapseli order. The storage service must be ordered at least four week before the end of your Kapseli subscription. At the moment, it is not possible to order only the storage service. If the data ha been analysed in another secure processing environment than Kapseli, you must first order Kapseli and then the storage service. The storage service can be ordered for a minimum of one year and requires a valid data permit for the entire storage period. If the data permit is not valid for the entire desired storage period, you should first apply for an extension of the validity of the data permit with a data permit amendment application in . If the data permit ha not been granted by Findata, we request that you contact the data permit issuer to extend the validity period. The storage service can be ordered for a maximum of five year at a time and only a representative of the permit holder can place order related to the storage service of the material. The continuation of the order is possible in accordance with the current term of service and price list. Order a continuation of the storage service at least one month before the end of the previous subscription. In order for the order to continue smoothly, ensure that the data permit cover the entire planned retention period when placing the order. How doe the storage service work? When the storage service is deployed, Kapseli and any software customisations will be removed. The storage service store the material produced with the data permit, a well a any file related to the research, such a code scripts. All file from the Kapseli D:, W:, and B: drive will be transferred to the storage service. The file format doe not matter. Keep these in mind It is your responsibility to store the data in a file format that allows it to be processed after restoration. The data will be transferred to the storage service in the status indicated by the start date of the data storage service. In connection with the implementation of the data storage service, you will be sent a security email with an encryption key and a unique identifier. The most reliable way to open the encryption key file is with Notepad. The encryption key and the unique identifier are required to re-implement the data. Without these, it is not possible to return the data from the storage service. It is your responsibility to keep the encryption key and the unique identifier safe during the storage service. Cancellation of the storage service If you want to terminate your storage service order before your order ends, you must order it separately in . The cancellation must be ordered at least one month before the desired cancellation date. After your storage service order ha ended, the material will be removed from the service. Findata will not store the data after the order ha ended. Returning material for use in the Kapseli or other secure processing environment If necessary, the data can be returned for analysis in a new Kapseli processing environment and transferred back to the storage service after processing. Order a transfer from the storage service to Kapseli at least one month before the desired date. To return the material, place an order for Kapseli before sending the return request. The data set from the data storage system can also be transferred to another secure processing environment that ha been accepted to the Toini secondary use register maintained by Valvira. For the use of Kapseli or data transfer to the secure processing environment of a third-party service provider, we will charge the work cost for the starting hour in accordance with the Kapseli price list. Pricing for the storage service The price of the storage service is reviewed annually. The processing fee and the first 12 month fee will be invoiced at the time of setup. After the first year, you will be invoiced in advance every six months. Kapseli price are commercially priced fee-based service to which VAT of 24% is added. The price in the price list do not include VAT. For example, the storage service processing fee is 570,40 in total ( 460,00 + (0,24 x 460,00) = 570,40). ProductPrice + VAT 24 %Further informationStorage service processing fee460,00 EURA processing fee and a minimum order of 12 month will be invoiced in connection with a new storage order.Monthly charge for the storage service per 0.5 TB7,00 EUR/month (42,00 EUR/6 months)Billed every six months. Invoicing 1. Fee for Findata data request or data permit We invoice for a decision on a data request or issuing of a data permit once the decision ha been made or the permit ha been granted. 2. Data extraction, processing and delivery We find out the data controller cost for extracting and delivering the data a part of our processing of the data request or data permit and provide this information to the applicant. We also give the applicant an estimate of the maximum cost for Findatas data-processing work. We invoice for the controller cost and the time spent by Findata processing the data once the data have been disclosed to the decision recipient or permit holder. Regarding the cost of the controllers, Findata treat the invoice a a pass-through item in it accounting. Thus, the controller determines the VAT liability based on the final payer of the invoice. If the estimated cost of the registrar extraction and Findatas data processing exceed 5,000 euros, we invoice non-domestic public administration organization for 70% in advance and foreign operator for 90% of the costs. Pre-invoicing can also be done at the licensee request with the desired percentage, if it is higher than the aforementioned minimum percentage. Domestic public administration organization are not invoiced in advance without a separate request. 3. Use charge for Kapseli secure processing environment We invoice the use charge for the remote access environmenton a monthly basis, according to the month of use. We reserve the right to change the price for the remote access environment if change take place to the procurement cost for the remote access environment independently of Findatas operations. Payment period and term The invoice payment period is 21 day for Finnish customer and 30 for foreign customers. Findata charge interest annually on overdue invoice in accordance with the amount laid down in and complying with the provision otherwise laid down in the Interest Act. Instead of charging interest on overdue payments, Findata may alternatively charge a flat-rate late payment fee of EUR 10 if the quantity of interest charged would be smaller than this. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 22.02.2024 Services and instruction All our service are related to the secondary use of health and social data. This page contains summary on our services, a list of instruction and a list of most frequently asked questions. We provide service to those who need information meaning our customer and party who control data meaning controllers. In addition, we provide information and advice to citizen on where register data are used, on each citizen right under the GDPR and on how we ensure that data protection is implemented. Book a time for personal consultation You can book a time for personal consultation with an expert from Findata. Appointments are available four day a week and last for 20 minutes. The meeting are held remotely via Teams. We offer help in the following topics: General consultation on Findatas service Data permit applications, amendments, and data request Extraction description form and other form Ordering Findatas secure processing environment Kapseli, pausing, and data storage service You can see the available time below. After booking, you will receive a confirmation email and a downloadable calendar reminder. We will send the link to the Teams meeting later. The personal consultation service is provided a a part of the funded by the European Union. On this page Forms for customer The extraction description form is intended for use by applicants, data controller and Findata. The extraction description form allows the applicant to request advice from the controller on the feasibility and cost of the planned extraction before submitting an application for a data permit or a data request to Findata. Read more: and If you have a permit from Findata and you are submitting your own material, file or software to Kapseli, inform u first at data@findata.fi before filling in the form. Read more: Kapseli can also be used in situation where another authority ha authorised the data (e.g. a wellbeing service county or other individual data controller). In these cases, fill in the preliminary inquiry form so that we can make an estimation of the workload and costs. With this form we ask for further information on the file to be combined to Findata data permit so that we can make an estimation of the workload and costs. Fill in only the part relevant to your application. If you are processing data in a secure operating environment other than Findatas Kapseli and are ready to publish the results, download and fill in the summary form. Read more: If you are applying for an amendment to a data permit to add or change person authorised to process the data, attach completed and signed confidentiality agreement to the application. Every added personal data processor must have their own confidentiality agreement. Read more: Services for customer Advice We provide advisory service on this website and via email at . We provide advice on issue such a question related to application for data permits, data request and amendment permits. In addition, we provide general advice on the matter related to Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data. When requiring information content from register or individual piece of data, it is best to contact the controller directly, a they are the best expert when it come to their own data and can provide statutory advisory service on their secondary use.See the page for controller contact details. Read more on the page Data permits, amendment permit and data request We issue data permit for data on individuals, when information is needed from numerous public controllers, the private sector or the Kanta Services. We combine and pre-process data while ensuring the privacy of citizens. We issue amendment permit for previously issued permits, when an amendment applies permit issued by numerous public controllers, Findata or an authority who ha transferred their right to issue permit to Findata. We make decision on data requests, meaning on access to statistical data when the information is needed from a controller within the scope of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data. Read more on the page Combining and pre-processing of data We collect register data from controllers. We pre-process the data disclosed to the permit holder, meaning we combine and pseudonymise, anonymise or produce statistical data of the data compiled from the controller. We convert and combine the permit holder own data to the data obtained through Findata. Read more on the page Secure Kapseli operating environment We provide a secure environment, Kapseli for the processing of data on individuals, where the software required for the analysis of key data are available. According to the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, starting on 1 May 2022 the analysis of data accessed with a data permit will only be permitted in operating environment that meet the requirement of the regulation. The requirement specify the same level of data security a is required in Kapseli. Read more on the page Instructions for customer (in Finnish) Services for controller Counselling service We provide advisory service on this website and via email at . We provide answer to question concerning such thing a the submission of data, data description and general question concerning the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data Support for creating data description Organisations within the scope of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data in their role a controller have a statutory obligation to draw up data description on the information content in their information resource in accordance with the Findata Regulation. This is important so that those who need data can ass the suitability of the data for secondary use. We provide free tool for controllers: Data editor, with which data description can be drawn up and a Data catalogue where data description can be published. In addition, we help controller in creating data description by providing training on the use of the aforementioned tools. Anonymisation service If the secondary data use application relates to only one public social and health sector controller, that controller is themselves responsible for processing the data permit application and making the permit decision. However, if the data is disclosed to the permit holder in anonymised form, we will anonymise the data on behalf of the controller and deliver it for the permit holder use. Processing of data permit and amendment application by the controller Public controller may authorise Findata to carry out on their behalf, a detailed in the Secondary Data Act, service other than advice and data description services. In such cases, we also process on behalf of the controller those data permit and amendment application which relate only to the content of the controller own registers. For information on controller who have transferred their authority to issue permits, see the page section titled Instructions for the controller Other service and obligation Rights of data subject pursuant to the EU General Data Protection Regulation Everyone ha the right to their personal data and the right to access information on the use of their personal data With regard to Findatas activities, information on this is available on this website and specifically on the . For information on project that have been issued a permit, see the . If necessary, you can also contact our advisory service. In addition to receiving information, the data subject ha the following right to their data a regard the data held by Findata: Right of access to one personal data Right to rectify one data Right to restrict the processing of one data Right to object to the processing of one data. If you wish to exercise you right pursuant to the GDPR, see the instruction here: Regulations related to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data The Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data obliges Findata to provide specifying regulation on matter such a secure operating environments, data description and data permit application and data utilisation plans. The regulation are changing in nature and will be updated a necessary. Frequently asked question How to order Kapseli . From the top menu select Submit application Scroll down and select Order or update of the Kapseli operating environment or the data storage service from under Select a new application form from below and click Fill in the application. Complete the application form Enter your own name in the applicant field After this, using the Invite a member button add all the person and email address that need user right to Kapseli The invited person will join using multi factor authentication Complete the rest of the form Please note, that R-Tools is not automatically installed in Kapseli. If you need R-Tools, indicate this in the additional information section of the form. Finally, select Send application from the Actions section. I cant log in to Kapseli what should I do? Before logging in, please make sure that your username is registered and ready to use. If you are not sure whether your account is ready for use, contact your Findata contact person or the Kapseli helpdesk: kapseli@findata.fi. How to log in to Kapseli Installto your phone and activate it. The developer is Duo Security Inc. If youve already installed and activated the app go to point 2. Installing: find Duo Mobile from your phone app store and install it. Activating: the phone number reported when ordering Kapseli will get an automatic activating message for Duo Mobile. The app is activated by clicking the link in the activating message. Log in Kapseli atusing your computer browser. Choose the identification method from the list that you chose while registering. Choose the operating environment youre going to use. If you have just one operating environment in use go to the next section. After choosing the environment the system go to the second phase of identification. The second phase of identification. Log in the operating environment. Youll get a notification about logging in to Duo Mobile. To approve the log in choose Approve in Duo Mobile. Can the data I received via Findata be combined to other information? Data referred to in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data can be combined to other information, such a data a person ha collected themselves or data accessed with some other permit. As a rule, Findata or a statistic authority combine the data. If you wish to combine data later on to data you have received via Findata, send an amendment application for the data to be combined. For more information please see the . If you are applying to have data accessed with an individual consent to be combined with data that Findata ha issued a permit for, the research subject notification and consent model must be attached to the application. If the data have been accessed with the permission of other actors, list the following information in the application: Permit record number, issuer, date of decision. If the permit process is pending, the party to whom the application wa submitted and the permit process start date. A brief description of the information content of other data. Do not attach permit for other data to the application. The application processor will ask for these separately of necessary. See the instruction for sending data on the page . How doe the data controller provide the extracted data to Findata? For instruction on how data controller can submit extracted data, see the . Can my information be disclosed abroad? Free movement of data within the EU is required under the General Data Protection Regulation. However, the law requires that the data is mainly processed in the centralised, secure user environment of the data permit authority for the social and health care sector, and that access right to the environment may only be granted to authorised persons. The permit holder may also be located elsewhere than in Finland. The provision of a data secure user environment is an essential technical measure to safeguard the protection of personal data. If necessary, the data may be disclosed to another secure environment indicated by the permit holder. However, this other environment must meet the criterion of the Findata order, it must be audited against the requirement of the order, and it audit certificate must be valid. Valvira maintains the Toini register, and in these case also the information should only be used for the purpose for which it wa disclosed to the permit holder. The EUs General Data Protection Regulation specifies the condition under which data can be disclosed outside the EU. Health and social data may not be used for marketing or the determination of individual commercial services, such a insurance premiums. Will my data be sold to third parties? No. Findata is the Health and Social Data Permit Authority that grant temporary permit for the secondary processing of social and health care data provided that the statutory permit condition are met. How can I prohibit the secondary use of my data? Everyone ha the right to their personal data and the right to object to the processing of the data. We have compiled instruction on how to exercise your right of objection on the webpage Data protection and processing of personal data. It should be noted that Findata is not the original controller of health and social data. Thus, for example, a request submitted to Findata to object to the use of personal data doe not prevent the disclosure of the data for secondary use by one of the controller referred to in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data (Secondary Use Act), Section 6. Unfortunately, Finland doe not have a centralised system through which the secondary use of data can be banned once and for all in a way that is binding on all parties. You can submit a objection request directly to the other actor referred to in Section 6 of the Secondary Use Act: social welfare and health care service providers, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela), the National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health, the Regional State Administrative Agencies, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Fimea, Statistics Finland, the Central Pension Insurance Institute and the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. What is the difference between primary and secondary use of health and social data? Primary use mean the purpose for which the data wa originally saved in the customer register and/or patient register. The primary purpose may be, for example, examination, treatment and rehabilitation of the patient, the service received by a social welfare customer, or the processing of benefit by the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela). Secondary use mean the use of the same data for purpose other than the primary use. Legitimate secondary purpose of use include scientific research, statistics, development and innovation activities, education, knowledge management, steering and supervision by authority and the planning and reporting duty of an authority. Different purpose of use are subject to different regulations. Only aggregated statistic from which individual cannot be identified may be obtained for development and innovation activities. Can I collect the data myself from my own hospital and thus avoid the data controller collection fee? Yes, you can, if this is okay with the controller. The controller ha the right to determine independently the manner in which it carry out the extraction, and it ha the right to use an external processor to carry out the data extraction. If such processor are used, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requires that a data protection agreement (DPA) covering the processing of personal data is signed with them. The controller is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the personal data is processed in a legal manner. The processor, meanwhile, is responsible for ensuring that it complies with the term of the DPA and the instruction of the controller. The collected data must be delivered to Findata securely via the transfer service Nextcloud, after which we combine and pre-process them. Do the collection fee charged by the controller include VAT? This depends on the controller. The data controller determine their own collection fee on the basis of their own regulations. Why is the VAT rate 0% for some payment and 24% for others? Findatas price are based on the decree of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on charge for work carried out by the Health and Social Data Permit Authority. With the exception of Kapseli, the service price are for action under public law that are based on cost value (VAT 0 %). The price for Kapselis service are commercially priced paid service with 24% VAT. The data controller determine their own cost on the basis of their own regulations. On average, how much are Findatas data processing charges? On the page (in Finnish), you can find the average, range and median calculated from the maximum cost estimates. The data is updated quarterly. What are the average collection fee for data controllers? You can find the average, the range and the median calculated from the maximum cost estimate for data extraction in Finnish on the . We update the data quarterly. Can someone other than the permit holder receive the invoices? Possibly. Any inconsistency between the applicant and the invoiced party (e.g. the payer is not the applicant) can be clarified where necessary in the Additional information section. Can I receive a paper invoice? E-invoicing is the primary invoicing method. Paper invoice are only possible in exceptional cases. As a rule, however, the invoice recipient are organisation that only accept e-invoices. If necessary, ask for more information from your organisation financial department. News Findata successfully lead development of Common European Application Forms in HealthData@EU Pilot 02.05.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.04.2024 Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.04.2024 A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 15.01.2024 About Findata Findata is the data permit authority for the social and health care sector, and it activity are based on the . This page includes the following: Shortcuts Open position Are you interested in meaningful work for a new and continuously evolving authority? See new job vacancy here! Data protection Read about Findata a a controller, the right you have a a data subject and how can you use those rights. Give feedback Influence the development of our service by telling u where we could improve our operations. About the website See this page for the accessibility statement and information on visitor tracking, a well a on social medium button and RSS feeds. Issued permit See this page for information on which project and organisation have received permission from Findata to use social and health data for secondary purposes. Regulations See this page for a list and brief description on all the Findata-issued regulation related to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data. Organisation Findata will operate in conjunction with the National Institute for Health and Welfare but separately from the Institutes other activities. Findata is under the performance guidance of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and it ha a Ministry-appointed director for the organisation a well a a Ministry-appointed steering group. The Findata management group is responsible for managing the operation of the data permit authority. In addition to Findatas Director, the management group includes the Head of Data Services, the Head of ICT, Development Manager, Legal Advisor and the Head of Communications. See the for our personnel contact details. For more information on the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data see the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health website: Tasks and objective Our task is to provide guidance, grant permit for the secondary use of social and health data and to ensure that data subject to a permit is combined and disclosed in an secure manner. We grant permit for the secondary use of social and health data when the application applies to data maintained by several public social and health sector controller data maintained by a single public controller, that ha transferred the right to issue permit to Findata the register data of one or numerous private social and health service provider, or data saved in the Kanta Services We are responsible for the combining and pre-processing of data subject to a permit, such a the production of pseudonymised and anonymised, statistical data. Our goal: Improve data security and the data protection of individuals. Speed up and streamline the utilisation of social welfare and health care data resources. Decrease the duplication of work in permit processing. Develop data description for the social welfare and health care sector together with the controllers. Legitimate purpose for the secondary use of social and health data will depend on what type of data is being used. Individual-level material educationscientific researchstatisticsplanning and reporting duty of an authority In addition, under the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, controller can use their own data for knowledge management without permission from Findata. Statistical data development and innovation operationseducationscientific researchknowledge management (comparative data)statisticsplanning and reporting duty of an authority See a list of the controller within the scope of the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency The Finnish Digital Agency, individual basic details, family relations, place of domicile and building detail Finnish Centre for Pensions Work and earnings data, benefit and the base for them Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Does not apply to data collected for statistical purpose Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Occupational illnesses, exposure test and patient register Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Benefits and prescription Statistics Finland To the extent that access is required to data covered by the act on the investigation of the cause of death Regional state administrative agency Matters relating to social welfare and health care) Guidance and supervision The steering group for the secondary use of social and health data guide and develops Findatas operations. The member of the steering group include representative appointed from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Digital and Population Data Services Agency, the Finnish Centre for Pensions, the Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea, the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela), the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, Statistics Finland, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, the National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira, and representative of social welfare and health care service providers. The steering group ha set up the following subcommittees: Secondary use of social and health data ecosystem group Cooperation group for controller and customer of secondary use of social and health data Cooperation group for customer of secondary use of social and health data For more information see the . In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ha set up a working group to draw up the principle for anonymisation, information security and data production in the use of social and health data. For more information on the data protection expert group for the secondary use of social and health data see the . Findatas operation are supervised by the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Data Protection Ombudsman, among others. The National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira monitor data secure user environments. In addition, Findata must give an annual report to the Data Protection Ombudsman regarding the processing of health and social data and the related log data. Preliminary survey on the impact of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data and a proposal for measure The steering group on the secondary use of health and social data ha commissioned a preliminary survey on the impact of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data on the secondary use of data for research, development, innovation and teaching. The report were commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Read the report by following the link below (in Finnish): Latest news Findata successfully lead development of Common European Application Forms in HealthData@EU Pilot 02.05.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.04.2024 Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.04.2024 A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search News Filter the news By theme 2.5.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health data for secondary use. The development of the... 25.4.2024 , Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data collected in the FinRegistry research project and research... 10.4.2024 , A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use gathered for the FinHITS kick-off event on Friday... 27.3.2024 , The EU-funded FinHITS project aim to strengthen the Finnish health data infrastructure and promote efficient and secure secondary use of... 23.2.2024 , The goal of the appointment-based personal consultation service is to provide individual support and make interacting with u easier. In... 15.2.2024 Prices for Findatas secure processing environment will change from 1 April 2024. If you want to change your Kapseli subscription... 31.1.2024 , It is now also possible to develop the individual care of patient through finding made in register studies. At the... 21.12.2023 , The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ha issued a decree on Findatas customer fee for 2024. Reduced decision fees... 19.12.2023 The end of the year is approaching and many data licence will expire on 31.12.2023. At the moment, the processing... 13.11.2023 The price of data permit and our service are based on the Decree of the Ministry of Social Affairs and... Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 06.05.2024 FinHITS Strengthening Finnish Health Data ICT for Secondary Use Join u on our four-year mission to strengthen the Finnish health data infrastructure and promote efficient and secure secondary use of health data, making u ready to launch into the European Health Data Space. Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Findata wa established in 2019 following enforcement of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data. We have been operational since the beginning of 2020, making u one of the first centralised health data permit authority in the European Union. At the moment, we offer our customer and controller a set of baseline services. With the European Health Data Space (EHDS) on the horizon, now is the time to use our unique hands-on experience to further develop our service and make them even more user-friendly and secure for efficient secondary use. To enable Finlands smooth participation in the upcoming EHDS, we are launching FinHITS a four-year project co-funded by the European Union that aim to strengthen Finnish health data ICT for secondary use. FinHITS will focus on: Increasing the capability of our data access application management system Developing the national dataset catalogue for health data Strengthening Kapseli, our secure processing environment for health data Creating a cross-border gateway to connect with the HealthData@EU infrastructure Elevating the quality of health data Through FinHITS, we are strengthening the Finnish data infrastructure to ensure efficient and secure secondary use of health data. As a result, Finland is ready to integrate seamlessly into the EHDS. By sharing our experiences, we aim to help other country in building their systems, steering clear of needle pitfall along the way. Want the latest news about FinHITS delivered straight to your email? Latest news on FinHITS related topic FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.04.2024 Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.04.2024 A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use Findata developes Finnish secondary use service in the FinHITS project 27.03.2024 The EU-funded FinHITS project aim to strengthen the Finnish health data infrastructure Want to know more about us? Explore the key figure of our operation and last year achievements. Co-funded by the European Union. Views and opinion expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or European Health and Digital Executive Agency. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 03.05.2024 Contact u On this page you will find the contact detail of our Help Desk and staff, a well a the postal and billing address. Help Desk Help Desk General guidance & advice Kapseli Inquiries related to Kapseli operating environment Data Inquiries related to data transfer Media inquiry Antti Piirainen Head of Communications Fiona Helminen Communications Assistant Data protection officer Sini Mickelsson Data Protection Officer Contact u Name(Required) First name Last name Organisation(Required) Email address(Required) Phone numberContact subjectNameThis field is for validation purpose and should be left unchanged. Personnel Management group Johanna Seppnen Director Maarit Ala-Mononen Executive Assistant Sini Mickelsson Lawyer Maari Parkkinen Development Manager Antti Piirainen Head of Communications Mervi Siltanen Head of Data Services Hannu Vilpponen Head of ICT Data Services Peija Haaramo Chief Metadata Specialist Hanna Tervonen Chief Data Manager Emma Baker Specialist Rea Glad Senior Specialist Aki Hagelin Data Analyst Krista Heinnen Senior Specialist Johanna Ikonen Data Analyst Rosa Juuti Senior Specialist Tiina Kernen Senior Specialist Anna Koski Senior Specialist Sarah Lignell Specialist Heidi Marjonen-Lindblad Data Analyst Hannele Mattsson Senior Specialist Veera Moisio Specialist Paula Nurmi Senior Specialist Sini Pirnes-Karhu Senior Specialist Miiro Pyysing Specialist Annika Rahkonen Senior Specialist Elisa Riippi Specialist Sonja Saloranta Senior Specialist Satu Sandholm Project coordinator, FinHITS Essi Tanttu Specialist Jarkko Tenhola Senior Specialist Addresses E-mail addresses: firstname.lastname@findata.fiPostal address:P.O. Box 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, FinlandStreet address:Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki(reception in building A) Invoicing address and VAT number Findata work under Finnish Institute for Health and Welfares (THL) billing address and business ID. eInvoicing address: EDI code: 003722295006 OpusCapita Group Oy Operator ID: 003710948874 VAT number: 2229500-6 Invoicing from country outside Finland: Finnish Institute for Health and WelfareP.O. Box 566001051 Laskut, FinlandFinland Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 20.03.2024 Login Log in to Findatas e-services, transfer service Nextcloud or the Kapseli remote access system. When you access the service, your connection is secured. Frequently asked question related to login can be found . Service disruption Virtu authentication unavailable on Tuesday 7 May from 4:30pm to 6:30pm A certificate change in the State Authentication Service will affect logging in to Findatas service using Virtu authentication on Tuesday, May 7, 2024, from 4:30 PM to 6:30 PM. During this time, it will not be possible to log in using Virtu authentication. We apologise for any inconvenience caused. E-service By logging in to the transaction service, you can Apply for a data permit for individual-level data Make a data request for statistical data Apply for an amendment permit Register a a Nextcloud transfer service user Order a Kapseli remote access environment Register a a user of the Kapseli or add user to a Kapseli Review the application you have submitted and the permit decision you have received, a well a their attachments. You log in to the service using Suomi.fi authentication or Haka login. If these method of identification are not possible, request an identification form from info@findata.fi. Please always log in using the same authentication method to see the application you have submitted and the decision you have received. Nextcloud transfer service With Nextcloud transfer service data controller can deliver the extracted data securely to Findata customers, ie licensees, may securely deliver their own data, file or software to Findata. Nextcloud is a secure data transfer service provided by Findata that allows encrypted personal data to be delivered to Findata. The law obliges all data controller within it scope to use the service maintained by Findata to transfer materials. Customers own materials, files, software, etc. are also transferred to Kapseli via Nextcloud. Please register a a Nextcloud user on our e-service. Kapseli You will receive usernames for Kapseli when you have received a positive permit decision we have compiled material from data controller you have completed the Kapseli order form and we have entered into an agreement with you for the use of the Kapseli. Kapseli is a secure remote access environment provided by Findata, which is accessed via a web browser. You can find more information and the price list on the page . Logging in requires strong, two-step authentication, which us Suomi.fi authentication and a one-time SMS password or Haka login. Please use the same method of logging in a in our other services. If Suomi.fi identification and Haka login neither are possible, request an identification form from info@findata.fi. Please register a a Kapseli user on our e-service. Restrictions Currently, the system automatically log the applicant out after a certain time limit, and the form is not saved automatically. We advise to to save your unfinished application approximately every 15 minutes. We have detected problem when using Internet Explorer. We recommend using other browsers. Data permit, data permit amendment and data request application form have been updated several times. Unfortunately it is not possible to copy old application version a new ones. We kindly ask you to fill in a new application form. Maintenance outage Our system have a monthly maintenance outage on the Thursday of the week after the second Tuesday of the month between 4 a.m. and 12 p.m. The timing stem from Microsofts Windows updates, which always occur on the second Tuesday of the month. The service may malfunction during this time, but it will be rectified after a maintenance outage. Dates of monthly maintenance outage in 2024 18.1.2024 22.2.2024 21.3.2024 18.4.2024 23.5.2024 20.6.2024 18.7.2024 22.8.2024 19.9.2024 17.10.2024 21.11.2024 19.12.2024 Frequently asked question related to login I cant log in to Kapseli what should I do? Before logging in, please make sure that your username is registered and ready to use. If you are not sure whether your account is ready for use, contact your Findata contact person or the Kapseli helpdesk: kapseli@findata.fi. How to log in to Kapseli Installto your phone and activate it. The developer is Duo Security Inc. If youve already installed and activated the app go to point 2. Installing: find Duo Mobile from your phone app store and install it. Activating: the phone number reported when ordering Kapseli will get an automatic activating message for Duo Mobile. The app is activated by clicking the link in the activating message. Log in Kapseli atusing your computer browser. Choose the identification method from the list that you chose while registering. Choose the operating environment youre going to use. If you have just one operating environment in use go to the next section. After choosing the environment the system go to the second phase of identification. The second phase of identification. Log in the operating environment. Youll get a notification about logging in to Duo Mobile. To approve the log in choose Approve in Duo Mobile. Why doesnt the application I have sent appear in the e-service? Verify that you are logging into the service in the same way a when you submitted your application. Example: If you submitted the application using Suomi.fi credentials, please use Suomi.fi authentication to log in. If you used Haka login, use Haka login again. If the application you submitted is still not visible, please contact Findatas customer service: . Why doesnt the decision I have received appear in the e-service? Verify that you are logging into the service in the same way a when you submitted your application. Example: If you submitted the application using Suomi.fi credentials, please use Suomi.fi authentication to log in. If you used Haka login, use Haka login again. If you still do not see the application or decision received on the service, please contact Findatas customer service: . How can I modify an application I have sent? Unfortunately, you cannot yourself modify an application after it ha sent. If you want to supplement an application that ha already been sent, send u an email to and tell u your application ID (e.g. 2022/53). We will return the application so you can supplement it. Restrictions The identification and therefore making a data request is currently possible only for people with a Finnish personal identity code. If you dont have a Finnish personal identity code, ask for a identification form from info@findata.fi. More infomation about the personal identity code Data permit request, amendment permit request and data request form have been udated several times. Unfortunately application made with old version cant be copied into a new application. We request you fill a new application form. Dates of monthly maintenance outage in 2024 18.1.2024 22.2.2024 21.3.2024 18.4.2024 23.5.2024 20.6.2024 18.7.2024 22.8.2024 19.9.2024 17.10.2024 21.11.2024 19.12.2024 Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 24.01.2024 Your right to your data When we process personal data a a data controller, you a a data subject have right to your personal information. On this page you can find information about the right of the data subject and how you can exercise them. The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. To find out how we process personal data, what personal data we collect and the basis for processing personal information, see our . What right do you have? Everyone ha the right to access, rectify, restrict and object to the processing of their data. Exercising your right As a rule, we can only execute the data subject request regarding the data in our possession. Minors and data subject right Minors have the same right a adult when processing personal data under the Secondary Use Act. When is the exercise of right not possible? With regard to scientific research and the compilation of statistics, it is possible to restrict the right of a data subject on a case-by-case basis. How can I exercise my rights? You can exercise your right using a form. The exercise of these right requires verification of the identity of the data subject. How can I cancel the exercise of my rights? Any person who ha submitted a data processing objection request can cancel the exercise of their rights. What are your right related to the processing of personal data? As a data subject, you have the right to receive information about how we use your personal data. This information is available in the privacy notice on our In addition, you have the following right when we process your personal data: Right of access to your personal data Right to rectify your data Right to restrict the processing of your data Right to object to the processing of your data Read more by clicking on the sub-headings. Right of access to your personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) You have a the data subject the right to obtain a copy of your personal data processed by Findata. In addition, you have the right to be informed of: where your personal data wa obtained why your personal data is needed for how long your personal data is needed whether your personal data have been disclosed and, if so, where. whether your personal data ha been transferred outside the EU and what safeguard have been applied to it under the GDPR whether the processing is carried out using automation and how you can exercise your right in relation to your personal data. Right to rectify your data (Article 16 of the GDPR) You have a a data subject the right to correct inaccurate data processed by Findata. Right to restrict the processing of your data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Data subject have the right to restrict the processing of their data in certain circumstances. Processing may also be restricted a a result of other request without the data subject explicit request. You may request Findata to restrict the processing of your personal data in the following situations: if your data is incorrect if your data are processed unlawfully but you do not want them to be deleted if Findata no longer need the data for the original purpose, but you need them for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claim if you have objected to the processing of your data but the final decision is still under consideration If we restrict the processing of your data, we will, where possible, inform all those to whom the data have previously been disclosed of the restriction. Right to object to the processing of your data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In this case, we shall no longer process the data relating to this person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Exercising your right If you wish to exercise these rights, you can find the necessary instruction on this page under section As a rule, Findata can only execute the data subject request regarding the data in it possession. The right to access personal data, the right to rectify personal data and the right to restrict the processing of personal data concern the data held by Findata at the time of filing the request. On the other hand, a request concerning the right to object may be made for an indefinite period. We maintain a separate list of data subject who have submitted a request to object. We record all request we receive in a diary. We retain personal data only for the time necessary to compile the data and to verify the accuracy of the data. If the data subject requires their personal data in order to prepare, present or defend a legal claim, the request concerning the matter should be submitted directly to the original controller of the data, for example, a healthcare provider. For example, the Digital and Population Data Services Agency ha the data concerning a person family relations, marital status and address, hospital have data on the person treatment, and the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela) ha data on the prescription issued to the person. Information about controller and the data content of register is available on the. Minors and data subject right Minors have the same right a adult when processing personal data under the Secondary Use Act. The basic principle is that a minor who is able to form their own view is free to express their view on the use and processing of their personal data. Can a child decide themselves whether to make requests? In the case of minors, it is not possible to issue specific recommendation on the age at which a minor can independently decide on the use and processing of their data. If taking into account their age and level of development the child is able to understand the matter and it significance, then they can decide on the exercise of their rights. Of course, this is not possible for very young children, but the older the child or young person is, the more decision-making power they have. The guardian may make a request on behalf of the child attach a certificate of custody or other legal representation of the child The guardian of an underage child may make, on the behalf of the child, a request that relates to the child right a a data subject. In case of joint custody, the request should be made and signed by both guardians. A certificate of custody obtained from the Population Information System must be attached to the request. The request should be in accordance with the assumed desire of the child and should represent their best interests. It is recommended that the guardian discus the request with the child and hear the child opinion on the matter before making the request, even if the child is not yet able to make a decision on the matter. Requests for underage child must be made a separate message through the Suomi.fi service so that they can be entered in the register a separate entities. Inform the child The guardian should inform the underage child of the request made on their behalf at the latest when the child is at an age and level of development where they can understand the matter. This is particularly important in situation where guardian have objected to the processing of personal data on behalf of a minor. Data processing objection request are valid until further notice and thus continue to be valid even after the minor becomes an adult. When is the exercise of right not possible? The exercise of right is not possible always in all situations. With regard to scientific research and the compilation of statistics, it is possible to restrict the right of a data subject on a case-by-case basis. In that case, a separate impact assessment must have been prepared concerning the research project, and it must have been submitted to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman prior to initiating the project. In such cases, we consider whether the data can be disclosed despite the data subject objection. Permit applicant have the possibility to limit the right of data subject to object to the processing of personal data for educational purposes, if the processing of personal data is necessary due to the rarity of the case. When a data subject object to the processing of their personal data by Findata, we erase the data concerning the data subject from it systems. If the data ha been disclosed before the data subject ha objected to the processing, the data cannot, a a rule, be erased. As a general rule, data subject right are not restricted and data subject request are complied with. We will limit the processing of personal data for the period during which this consideration is being made. How can I exercise my rights? To exercise your rights, please complete the form below. Complete the form which concern the right you wish to exercise. If you want to exercise several rights, fill in all the necessary forms. In order to exercise the rights, we must verify the identity of the data subject. This is important so that we can be sure to perform the measure to the data of the correct person. Submit the completed form(s) primarily via the . Step-by-step guide Log in to the Suomi.fi service with your personal online banking codes, a certificate card or a mobile certificate. Go to Compose a message Select National Institute for Health and Welfare a the recipient of the message. Select Registry a the recipient service or issue. Enter Findata: right of a data subject a the subject. List the right you wish to exercise (you may use the name of the forms) in the message field. Attach the completed form(s) by clicking Add the attachment here. Finally, click the Send the message button. The message is directed to the registry of the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, from where it is forwarded to Findata. As a rule, we process request within one month of receiving them. If the processing of the request is particularly complex for some reason, we may extend the processing time to a maximum of three months. We will send a reply on the implementation of the request or resolving the matter to the data subject a a Suomi.fi message. If you are unable to use the Suomi.fi service, you can personally visit the reception of the National Institute for Health and Welfare in Helsinki or Kuopio. Note that Findata is not the original controller of health and social data. Thus, for example, a request submitted to Findata to object to the use of personal data doe not prevent the disclosure of the data for secondary use by one of the controller referred to in the Secondary Use Act Section 6. If you have additional question about exercising your rights, please contact u by email at . How can I cancel the exercise of my rights? If desired, a request objecting to the processing of data may be cancelled. This applies to any person who ha submitted a data processing objection request. A minor on whose behalf the guardian have submitted such a request may also cancel the request themselves if they are assessed a understanding the importance of the matter given their current age and level of development. If you wish to cancel your request, send a message concerning the request to Findata via the Suomi.fi service or visit personally the reception of the National Institute for Health and Welfare in Helsinki or Kuopio. Contact detail Sini Mickelsson Data Protection Officer Help Desk General guidance & advice See also Our Privacy Policy On this page you will find information about how we process personal data, how you can exercise your data protection rights, what personal data we collect and what the processing of personal data is based on. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Share in social medium Findata successfully lead development of Common European Application Forms in HealthData@EU Pilot 2.5.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health data for secondary use. The development of the form is part of the HealthData@EU pilot project which is building a pilot version of the European Health Data Space (EHDS) infrastructure for the secondary use of health data. The form provide Health Data Access Bodies (HDABs) with all the necessary information to ass whether permission to use the data can be granted. Using the shared form template, user can apply for data from other EU country a well, and the information can be collected consistently and in compliance with EHDS requirements, say Findatas Chief Specialist, Peija Haaramo. For the form to work efficiently, it is crucial that sufficient information is gathered for the processing of the application. However, the form shouldnt be too burdensome or complicated to fill in and process, Haaramo continues. The form are based on the requirement outlined in the EHDS Regulation proposal which wa presented by the European Commission in May 2022. They also take into account the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Experience used a a basis for creating the form Findatas own application form served a the basis for the development of the forms, a they have gone through several round of iteration and proved to work well during Findatas four year of operation. When the development process for the form began, Findata had successfully received and processed more than 860 applications. The practical experience helped u to identify the best practice and the most common pitfall that can occur, say Sofia Marin, Findatas project officer for HealthData@EU. The French, Norwegian, Danish and Belgian application form were also used a a reference when defining the necessary element for the common European forms. Collaboration emphasised in the process Findata welcomed all comment and idea from project partner throughout the process. It also announced official round of comments, ensuring everyone had the opportunity to share their view and suggest improvements. Findata organised several workshop to analyse the question on the forms. We analysed the relevance of the questions, their clarity and whether they provided sufficient information for the HDABs. Participants also shared their valuable practical experience a data users, application processor and legal experts, refining the form accordingly, say Marin. A comprehensive report wa written to accompany the forms, detailing the context of the task, outlining the methodology used to create the forms, explaining each section of questions, and providing a wide range of recommendation for implementation and further development. Learn more about the Common data application form: Contact Peija Haaramo Chief Metadata Specialist Sosiaali- ja terveysalan tietolupaviranomainen Share in social medium Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Share in social medium FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.4.2024 , Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data collected in the FinRegistry research project and research data generated from them. Extractions from the material will be tailored for each project. FinRegistry is a joint research project of the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) and the Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, which examines register data covering the whole Finnish population. Now the vast majority of the register data used in the study is available directly from Findata. The material includes data from Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV), Cancer Registry, Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK), Kanta services, Kela, THL and Statistics Finland. It contains over 20 datasets and cover data from several decades. A special thank you to the FinRegistry research project for making this possible and for suggesting it. Its great that such a comprehensive dataset collection can be put to wider use, say Peija Haaramo, Chief Specialist at Findata. The FinRegistry ready-made dataset collection ha been developed a part of the FinHITS project co-funded by the European Union. FinRegistry data is available faster and cheaper The FinRegistry data differs from the previous Findata COVID-19 ready-made dataset in that it doe not have predefined datasets or modules, but the extraction is always tailored to the need of the applicant. Findata ensures that the principle of minimization is fulfilled and pseudonymises the data. The process of applying for a data permit that consists of the FinRegistry data is shorter than for a standard data permit, a the feasibility and cost of extracting the data doe not need to be separately requested from the data controllers. This also mean that the dataset is likely to be available at a lower cost. We at Findata ass the feasibility and cost of the planned extractions. The dataset can also be used, for example, to select target or control group for data permit that involve data other than the data in the FinRegistry material, Haaramo says. The cost of a data permit solely to the FinRegistry dataset collection is 300 euros. For data extraction, a fee based on an hourly rate is charged, which is 147 euro per hour in 2024. If additional data are combined with FinRegistry dataset collection, the price of a standard data permit will apply. How to apply for the FinRegistry data You can apply for the FinRegistry data by using the data permit application form in . The use of FinRegistry data to define the target group is also done on the application form. The required variable need to be listed on the extraction description form in accordance with the data descriptions. Data description can be found in the in English and Finnish. Contact Peija Haaramo Chief Metadata Specialist Read more Ready-made datasets The pre-processed data comprise ready compiled and processed data entities, which are available more quickly, and without cost estimate or excerpt requested from the controller. FinHITS Strengthening Finnish Health Data ICT for Secondary Use Through FinHITS, we are strengthening the Finnish data infrastructure to ensure efficient and secure secondary use of health data. As a result, Finland is ready to integrate seamlessly into the EHDS. Co-funded by the European Union. Views and opinion expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or European Health and Digital Executive Agency. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Sosiaali- ja terveysalan tietolupaviranomainen Share in social medium Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Share in social medium The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.4.2024 , A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use gathered for the FinHITS kick-off event on Friday 5 April 2024. Among the attendee were Findatas customers, data controller and other secondary use stakeholder such a service providers. The discussion highlighted the importance of collaboration. The kick-off event of FinHITS wa filled with an enthusiastic and collaborative atmosphere, a more than a hundred secondary use expert gathered together to plan future service and discus the opportunity and challenge of secondary use of social and health data. It wa great to see a room full of people interested in the development of secondary use service and the newest development of the EHDS, say Satu Sandholm, Project Coordinator of FinHITS. First we got to hear the latest news on the development of the European Data Space (EHDS) and preliminary interpretation of it relevance for Finland. The participant were given a comprehensive presentation on the FinHITS project co-funded by the European Union, which aim to develop Finnish secondary use service over the next four years. In the afternoon, a panel discussion brought a variety of perspective to the table. Aaro Tupasela from the University of Helsinki, Aino Vesikansa from MedEngine, Arto Vuori from Kela, Enni Sanmark from HUS and the University of Helsinki and Johanna Seppnen from Findata shared their view on the strength and challenge of the Finnish infrastructure and where we are heading with the EHDS. The day concluded with a recap of the presentations, question and discussion heard during the event by Jukka Lhesmaa, Senior Specialist at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Short warm-up got the participant ready for the work shop sessions. Descriptions of available data play a key role Participants were able to contribute to service development plan in workshops. The four workshop focused on different themes: data quality, the secure processing environment, Findatas e-service and helpdesk services. In each workshop, the national data catalogue (Aineistokatalogi) came up a a topic for discussion. One workshop discussed the possibility of integrating the data catalogue into the application portal, while another workshop came up with the idea of a Mega-catalogue that would also include data other than those covered by the Secondary Use Act and legislation on the use of data. These are exactly the kind of ambitious idea that we were looking for, say Sandholm. High-quality and standardised data description were seen a an opportunity to improve data quality, facilitate the processing of data permit application and reduce the customer need for guidance. Highlights from the workshop Data quality The importance of data harmonisation: making use of data models, standard and machine learning Channel for communication: a tool to report data quality, shortcomings, possibility for iterative quality improvement Development of Kapseli processing environment Adding automation for verifying the anonymity of result More agile customisation of processing environment and streamlined access management. Development of Findatas e-service Structured application where extraction need only be described once A portal linked to the data catalogue, where the extraction are described based on the data stored in the catalogue Development of advisory service and an international perspective Leveraging automation and AI in advice services: automating the start of the advice pathway to refine the information needs, and, if needed, directing the client to advice with clear question Tackling challenge with cooperation Both in the workshop and in the coffee-table discussions, the importance of collaboration wa a topic of discussion. The participant valued the opportunity to connect with others working within the field of secondary use, tell Maari Parkkinen, Development Manager of Findata. Many said that getting to know each other and brainstorming together make it easier to continue collaborating in the future. Sandholm agrees that it is essential to take into account different perspective and make compromises. This will become even more important a the EHDS implementation approaches: We all face many of the same challenge and it is therefore important that we work together to solve them. Having a unified national vision will also facilitate the implementation of the EHDS. The next FinHITS event will be a webinar in November, which anyone interested can attend. The collaboration continues during the project, for example in smaller test group where participant will be able to test the service being developed. Events in English will also be organised. We would like to thank the participant for their activity! Not only did we get support for our current plans, but also a lot of new idea that we will continue to develop a the project progresses, say Parkkinen. Group photo wa taken to end the event. Contact Maari Parkkinen Development Manager Satu Sandholm Project coordinator, FinHITS Read more Do you want the latest news on FinHITS straight to your e-mail? FinHITS Strengthening Finnish Health Data ICT for Secondary Use Join u on our four-year mission to elevate the Finnish health data technology, creating connection that reach beyond border and foster innovation in the realm of healthcare. Co-funded by the European Union. Views and opinion expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or European Health and Digital Executive Agency. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Sosiaali- ja terveysalan tietolupaviranomainen Share in social medium Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 22.02.2024 Permits We issue permit for the secondary use of social and health data, combine data that is subject to a permit in a secure manner and pre-process these ensuring the privacy of citizens. Book a time for personal consultation You can book a time for personal consultation with an expert from Findata. Appointments are available four day a week and last for 20 minutes. The meeting are held remotely via Teams. We offer help in the following topics: General consultation on Findatas service Data permit applications, amendments, and data request Extraction description form and other form Ordering Findatas secure processing environment Kapseli, pausing, and data storage service You can see the available time below. After booking, you will receive a confirmation email and a downloadable calendar reminder. We will send the link to the Teams meeting later. The personal consultation service is provided a a part of the funded by the European Union. Before applying Applying After applying What to remember before sending an application Select the correct application type There are different type of application for different information need Data permit application, when you need data on individual Data request, when you need statistical data Amendment application, when you are applying for an amendment to a valid data permit Describe and limit data Define the data to be applied for at the variable level and remember the principle of minimisation for other information. and controller advisory service Where from and how do I extract the target group? Is the definition specific enough? Are control subjects/relatives extracted? How will they be defined? From which register will the data be extracted? What variable will be included in the extraction? Other data to be combined Have you made sure that the other data is described on the application? Are the permit for other data valid or is the permit process pending? Determine the competent authority Findata is responsible for the application and the permit decision whenever dataare combinedfrom data controller covered by the Act on secondary use of health and social data.The assessment of the competent authority must therefore consider all the data related to the application. Before applying What data use can permit be issued for? A permit can be issued for the purpose laid down in law, which are listed below. Data on individual will be sent to a secure operating environment for analysis, while statistical data can be sent to the applicant. Pursuant to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, information can be used without a separate permit also for knowledge management and social welfare and health care official management and supervision. Individual-level material scientific research statistic education planning and reporting duty of an authority In addition, under the Secondary Use Act, controller can use their own data for knowledge management without permission from Findata. Statistical data scientific research statistic planning and reporting duty of an authority and/or guidance and supervision of a social and healthcare authority education development and innovation operation knowledge management (comparative data) Note that a a rule, the Secondary Use Act applies to register-based studies. A register-based study is a study which utilises register data usually collected for other purpose or national registers. For example, the Secondary Use Act doe not apply to clinical trial reported to Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea or to medical trial under the Medical Research Act. What data can permit be issued for? The data you can access via Findata are from social and health sector controller on which you can find more information on the page. Please note that we cannot issue permit for the data of all controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act. More detail on these data restriction can be found in the . See a list of the controller within the scope of the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency The Finnish Digital Agency, individual basic details, family relations, place of domicile and building detail Finnish Centre for Pensions Work and earnings data, benefit and the base for them Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Does not apply to data collected for statistical purpose Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Occupational illnesses, exposure test and patient register Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Benefits and prescription Statistics Finland To the extent that access is required to data covered by the act on the investigation of the cause of death Regional state administrative agency Matters relating to social welfare and health care) Data description and additional information In accordance with the Secondary Use Act, data controller provide advisory service concerning their own data and are the best placed to do so. If you need more information on the variable in a certain controller data, contact the controller in question. You can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. In the application you send to us, specify the person with whom you have agreed to on the matter. The National Data Catalogue at aineistokatalogi.fi contains description of some of the data in the scope of the Secondary Use Act. Which authority should a permit application be submitted to? Findata is responsible for the application and the permit decision whenever dataare combinedfrom data controller covered by the Secondary Use Act. The assessment of the competent authority must therefore consider all the data related to the application. Submit the application to Findata when it applies to data from several public social and health sector controller data maintained by a single public controller, that ha transferred the right to issue permit to Findata register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Under the law, statistical, aggregated data subject to a data request can only be accessed via Findata. See the bottom of this page for the application assistant. The assistant can help in determining which authority you should send you data permit or amendment application to. The right listed below concerning the issuing of data permit and amendment permit also apply when not permit ha been issued to any controller information. If there is already a valid permit for some of the information, it will then be determined how many controller have data that the applicant need to access. In a situation where a permit is only needed for information from one public sector controller, the controller in question will issue the permit. The Secondary Use Act doe not apply to clinical trial reported to Fimea, so these are not within Fimeas competence. The definition for interventional clinical trial and noninterventional study can be looked up in Finnish at . When necessary, Fimea will provide advice on whether a study is considered a clinical trial. You can read more on data permit processing related competence in Finnish in section 44 of the Under the Secondary Use Act, public sector social and health controller are divided into two groups. Below is the more detailed division of these group and their difference in competence. Public sector controllers: Group 1 Regional State Administrative Agencies (AVI) Social Insurance Institution (Kela) Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public service provider of social welfare and health care Ministry of Social Affairs and Health (STM) Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (TTL) We are responsible for data permit and amendment permit when the application concern the information of at least controller in this group. This is also applies in a situation where another party could be believed to have already accessed data or to have their own data. If for example, a wellbeing service county need data from Kela in addition to their own data for a study, the application in this case concern the data of two controllers. In this case, Findata is the competent authority. If the application or the data utilisation plan mention other data under the Secondary Use Act which is to be combined with the data to be retrieved, the application applies to this combined data a well. Public sector controllers: Group 2 Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV): A person basic personal data (e.g. birthdate, date of death, personal identity code), family relations, place of residence and building details. If other information is needed, DVV is responsible for processing application and making permit decisions. Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK): Peoples employment and income data, granted benefit and their ground including diagnosis concerning disability pensions. If other information is needed, the ETK is responsible for processing application and making permit decisions. Statistics Finland: Information to help in determining cause of death. If other information is needed, Statistics Finland will be responsible for processing application and making permit decisions. We are responsible for the data permit and amendment permit of the Finnish Centre for Pensions, the Digital and Population Data Service Agency and Statistics Finland, if in addition to them the application also concern information from one or more public sector controller in Group 1 information from one or more private social welfare and health care service organisers, or data saved in the Kanta Services Applying Logging into e-services All application to Findata are sent in our e-service with an online form. Log into the service at using Suomi.fi e-Identification or Haka log in. Please always log in using the same identification methods, so that you can see the application you have sent and the decision that have been given. If you encounter any problems, contact Findatas advisory service: For more information on logging in see the page. Selecting and completing an application form There are different application form for different information need Data permit application, when you need data on individuals, the analysis of data subject to a data permit will only be possible in audited, secure operating environments. Data request, when you need statistical data The statistical data accessed with a data request will be sent to the applicant. Amendment application, when you are applying for an amendment to a valid data permit See the Amendment permit page for information on what amendment you can apply for with an . Complete the application form carefully. Shortcomings in an applicant will lead to a request for more information and the return of the application to the applicant. For detailed instruction on the completion of different application form see the page for different type of permits: If you do not know what information to enter into an information field on the form, ask for help well in advance from within your organisation or from our advisory service. Help Desk General guidance & advice How to expediate the processing of application The processing time for application are affected by the content of the application, in particular, the accuracy of an extraction description, the backlog at Findata and the response time of controllers. If there are any ambiguity concerning the completion of your application, contact the controller directly and Findatas advisory service to expediate processing. How to speed up the processing of your application: Check whether Findata is the competent authority to issue a permit for the data you need. Use the to help in determining this. The exception to Findatas one-stop shop are the Digital and Population Data Services Agency, the Finnish Centre for Pensions, and Statistics Finland. If you need information from one or several the aforementioned controllers, these controller are responsible themselves for the processing of application and making permit decisions. If you do not know where you should send an application, contact our advisory service before sending the application:. Contact controller directly if you need more information about the data or variables. In accordance with the Secondary Use Act, the data controller provide advisory service concerning their own data and are the best placed to do so. You can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. In the application you send to us, specify the person with whom you have agreed to on the matter. You can also contact our advisory service or use the . Describe the information need and the register-specific data extraction a accurately a possible before sending the application. If the extraction includes several steps, also describe the order of extraction. Use . Incomplete or insufficient description can lead to your application being returned to you. Make sure that the extraction and the data you want to retrieve is essential The principle of minimisation a defined in the GDPR is applied to the disclosure of personal data, meaning that only the essential data is disclosed. The extraction can be extensive provided that there are good ground for the necessity of the data. Complete the applicationcarefully. Pay attention when entering basic data such a the applicant, the controller for the data to be disclosed, invoicing detail and possible other data to be combined. About the transfer of personal data outside the EU/EEA The processing of personal data abroad is counted a a transfer of personal data even if the data is in a remote access environment. Under the EUs General Data Protection Regulation, data can be transferred within the European Economic Area on the same ground a within Finland. Countries belonging to the European Economic Area include the EU Member States and Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. If data is to be transferred or processed outside the aforementioned countries, i.e. in so-called third countries, there must be a legal basis for this in keeping with Chapter V of the GDPR. The acceptable legal base are listed below. It is sufficient that just one of these base for data transfer is met. Commission decision in the adequacy of data protection under Article 45 If the requirement for the transfer are met on this basis, no other measure are required, and we will take this criterion into account a a factor justifying the transfer in the data permit decision. This safe country principal is the primary basis for data transfer. For more information, see . Standard contractual clause on data protection pursuant to Article 46(2) Standard contractual clause (SCC) are standard contractual clause approved by the European Commission that can be used in contract between two controller or between a controller and a processor. These standard clause can be viewed on . If this is given a the basis for data transfer, we will take this criterion into account in the data permit decision. We will make the data available outside the EU/EEA subject to this condition and only after the applicant or permit holder ha submitted to Findata the signed standard contractual clauses. The use of standard clause will also require additional examination of the adequacy of data protection. Please note that standard contractual clause may not be modified or added to, but must be approved a they are. Binding corporate rule pursuant to Article 47 Binding corporate rule (BCR) refer to shared, binding rule for the transfer of personal data to third country within a corporate group or group of company engaged in joint economic operations. For more information, . If this is given a the basis for data transfer, we will take this criterion into account in the data permit decision. We will make the data available outside the EU/EEA area subject to this condition and only after the applicant or permit holder ha notified the Findata of the code of conduct in question, which must have been appropriately approved by a data protection ombudsman of an EU Member State. Exceptions and safeguard under Article 49 Exceptions and safeguard under Article 49, such a the explicit consent of the subject to the proposed transfer after being informed of the risk associated with the transfer.This basis for transfer can only be used in exceptional cases. For more information, . When appealing to this legal basis when utilising data subject to a permit, the controller or the processor must describe in their report on processing operation the assessment related to the transfer and the appropriate safeguard established. For more information, . If this is given a the basis for data transfer, we will take this criterion into account in the data permit decision. Further information on the transfer of data to the United Kingdom following Brexit can be found on . Permit fee and other cost A fee will be charged for decision concerning data permit applications, data request and amendment application and the related processing of data. The price of our service comprises the price of the decision and an hourly fee, which will be determined according to the working hour spent on combining and processing the data. In addition to the fee charged by Findata, the final price is affected by the data extraction and delivery fee based ondecrees concerning the controllers. When we process applications, we will ask the controller for a maximum cost estimate for extracting the necessary data. We will also give a maximum cost estimate on data processing by Findata. We will forward these estimate to the applicant before making a decision on the permit. The final price of the data resource is confirmed after disclosing the data. A separate processing fee is charged for any expired and negative decisions. See the page for more information. After applying How doe an application processing proceed? The processing of application can be divided into five stages, which can be preceded by the applicant independently contacting to a controller. The process is shown in text after the graph. The applicant contact controller directly before sending an application, if they need additional information on the data or variable or they need help with drawing up an extraction description. The applicant can also make an agreement on the implementation of data extraction in a certain manner with the controller. If the customer and the controller contact person have agreed for example that a clinician, who is part of the research team will extract the data free of charge, the application Additional information section should include information on who this wa agreed on with and in what context. The applicant submits their application or requested additional information to Findata in the electronic application system at . If the applicant is only submitting additional information, the clarification can, depending on the case, also be submitted by e-mail. Our application processor check application and their appendix to ensure that these contain all the necessary information. Where necessary, we will return an incomplete application for completion or we will submit a request for further clarification to the applicant. When all the extraction description have been completed, we will send additional information and cost estimate request to the controller whose information is requested in the application. The purpose of the request is to determine the feasibility of the requested extraction and the maximum cost estimate for the extraction. According to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, the controller have 15 working day to respond to this request. Where necessary, controller may ask for additional detail to the request, in which case we will forward the question to the applicant. At this stage, we will also determine Findatas internal cost estimate, which comprises our own data processing costs. Once all the cost estimate have been received, the applicant will be presented with a final extraction description and a maximum cost estimate for approval. The applicant must accept both in order for the permit to be granted. Note that it will not be possible to change the extraction condition after this, and that change made to the extracted data later on will require a separate application. We at Findata will issue a positive data permit or data request decision. Note, that data permit are always for a fixed period. If data need to be saved for a purpose such a the verification of research or the you intend to renew your permit or the extraction must be updated at certain intervals, include these need in your application. How will the compilation of the applied for data proceed? Once we have issued a data permit or made a decision on a data request, there are five different staged for the compilation of data and it pre-processing. The process is shown in text after the graph. We will send the data request to the controller so that extraction can begin. Each controller ha 30 working day to submit the requested data to Findata. Depending on the nature of the project and the extraction, this phase may include several consecutive parts, such a 1. extraction of the target group; 2. extraction of the controls; 3. extraction of data. We will begin to process the sent data. As agreed on for each project, we will check, combine and pseudonymise the data or make statistic on them in accordance with a data request. The completed data will be handed over to the permit holder in an agreed-upon secure operating environment. Findatas secure remote operating environment is the statutory primary option. The data can be disclosed to other operating environments, if this is necessary for the completion of the project. The target time for the handing over of data is 60 working days. The target time will not be possible if a target group is not given immediately after the decision ha been made, data extraction is carried out in several stages, delivery by data controller are delayed or the data is exceptionally complex. The permit holder ha three month to review the material. The permit holder must notify Findata within this given time period of any comment they wish to make on the material. Check the data thoroughly a soon a possible. Errors that occur during extraction can accumulate, if, for example, the target group ha been formed incorrectly and other controller must carry out their own extraction all over again for this reason. We will remove the data from our own system four month after it ha been handed over. We will retain the code key for pseudonymised data that will enable the data to be reproduced. Data permit are always for a fixed period. If data need to be saved for a purpose such a the verification of research or the you intend to renew your permit or the extraction must be updated at certain intervals, include these need in your application. Where can the data be analysed? The aggregated statistical data accessed via a data request is sent to the customer, and it can be analysed freely in accordance with a data utilisation plan. Data on individual that require a data permit can only be analysed in a secure environment. As a rule, the data will always be disclosed to Findatas secure operating environment . However, the Act on the Openness of Government Activities make it possible to disclose information to other operating environments, if necessary. Read more below in the section:. If an individual controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act ha made a decision on a data permit concerning data included in their own registers, they must disclose the data to a secure environment referred to in the Act a well. Amendment permit are also officially data permit (decisions to amend data permits), meaning the same requirement apply to these a to data permits. The exception to this is change to personal data processors. Findatas regulation set information security requirement for environment We have issued a regulation in accordance with the Secondary Use Act, which describes the requirement laid down other service provider secure operating environments. The regulation concern the secondary use of social and health data, and it will be applied to all the purpose provided in the Act for which a data permit is required. These purpose include scientific research, statistics, teaching and the planning and investigation task of the authorities. With regard to teaching, the regulation pertains to the preparation of teaching materials, not actual teaching. As of 1 May 2022, the implementation of the requirement laid down in the regulation is a prerequisite for the disclosure of data to be processed by the permit holder for secondary purpose in an environment other than Findatas secure operating environment Kapseli. In addition, the operating environment must be assessed by a data security assessment body that must issue a certificate on the assessment. The entry into force of the requirement doe not affect existing, valid permits. If data are processed on the basis of a valid permit previously granted, the processing of that data may continue in the same environment after 1 May 2022. The requirement take into account the solution in existing environment and enable the utilisation of different technical solutions. At it simplest, a secure environment can be a physically and technically secure space with a terminal device for analysing data that is isolated from the Internet and other devices. On the other hand, technical solution based on cloud service are also possible, a long a the service provider ensures the required level of data security. The operating environment of foreign researcher must also meet the data protection and security requirements. Clinically significant finding Based on the Section 55 of the Secondary Use Act, a data recipient can contact Findata if they make a clinically significant finding where a health-related risk could be prevented or the quality of their treatment improved. Findata establishes who the finding concern and then submits the information to a specialist at the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL). THLs appointed specialist ass the significance of the data and the expected benefit of taking action. If the benefit is assessed to be so clear that it would be important for the patient to receive treatment, the information is then disclosed to the wellbeing service county responsible for the patient treatment. An employee of the wellbeing service county contact the patient. Everyone ha the right to prohibit attempt to contact them based on section 55 of the Secondary Use Act. This prohibition can be set up in any operating unit that provides public health care and also online via My Kanta. Contact prohibition cannot be set up via Findata, Kela or THL. How to report a clinically significant finding to Findata Send an email to with a message stating that you wish to report a significant clinical finding. Do not send personal data by email! Please write Clinically significant finding in the subject line of the email. You will receive a reply with instruction on how to submit the information to Findata. Personal data will be transferred securely via Nextcloud. If you do not have Nextcloud account, create one by following the instruction on the page See the section Open the Nextcloud connection. Enter the diary number of the data permit from which you have made the clinically significant finding (enter section55 in the identifier-field) If you already have Nextcloud connection, we will share a Nextcloud folder with you for data transfer. You can transfer data following the instruction on the page See the section Encrypt your data and transfer it to Nextcloud. Once you have submitted your data, please let u know at . Submit the following data to Find The diary number of the data permit and the issuer. The pseudo-code or personal identification number of the person with a significant clinical finding. Information about the clinically significant finding that THL can use to ass the significance of the information. The name and contact detail of the contact person of the data permit, that can be provided to the THL for any further questions. Verifying the anonymity of result All those who process personal data must provide the result of their analysis in an anonymous form that cannot be used to reveal any data or aspect concerning individual participants. We ensure anonymity in line with the Secondary Use Act. This applies to all material that have been authorised under said Act. See the page, for the criterion on reviewing result and for example on the most common analysis types. Publishing result from Kapseli Data processing is done in Kapseli-environment and only the final analysis result are exported from Kapseli. The user produce the result in an anonymous format and Findata ensures the anonymity of the result in accordance with the Secondary Use Act. Verify the anonymity of the result intended for publication using the instruction found on this page. Transfer the result and the summary form to Findata via the Output (O:) drive in Kapseli. The summary form for the verification of the anonymity of result can be found in the Kapseli D-folder from folder named Kyttohjeet_User_guide_05062023. Compress the file and the summary form into a zip folder and name it a follows: Results_[Record_number_of_permit_decision]_[Kapseli_ID]_[Delivery_date] (e.g., Results_ THL_1234_14.02.00_2020_a01_15032021). Note: write the date in format ddmmyyyy. Create an empty text file named a ZZZ_READY.txt to the Output drive. This will initiate an automatic transfer of the zip folder. Make sure to double check the spelling of the ZZZ_READY.txt file. Transfers take place on the hour and in every 30 minutes. Transferred file will be automatically deleted from the Output drive. You can notify Findata of your transfer () if you wish and we will get back to you if we do not receive your transfer. There will be no verification that the transfer succeeded. Findata will review the request within 5 working day and submit the result via Nextcloud to the permit holder, o If you dont have a Nextcloud account, fill in the form Order a new Nextcloud account in. Note that if your result file are very large, the verification process may exceed the usual 5-day time limit. The time limit also applies only to the verification of the anonymity of results, not to the import of other file out of Kapseli (e.g. code files). Publishing result from other secure operating environment If you are processing data in a secure operating environment other than Findatas Kapseli and are ready to publish the results, follow the instruction below. Download the summary form and fill in the requested information:. Compress the file and the summary form into a zip folder and name it a follows: Results_[Record_number_of_permit_decision]_[Kapseli_ID]_[Delivery_date] (e.g., Results_ THL_1234_14.02.00_2020_a01_15032021). Note: write the date in format ddmmyyyy. You can deliver the result to Findata in two ways: If you have a Nextcloud-account, transfer the result via Nextcloud If you do not have a Nextcloud-account transfer the result via secure e-mail Note: do not send the result file to Findata a an attachment to a regular, non-secure e-mail. Contact Findata at Name the subject of your e-mail a Ensuring the anonymity of result Specify in your e-mail whether you are transferring the result via Nextcloud or via secure email. If you are using Nextcloud, please include the diary number of the data permit and your Nextcloud ID. Findata will provide you with the name of the folder where you can transfer your result and a zip folder containing the summary form. If you transfer your result by secure email, you will receive a secure e-mail from Findata to which you can reply to securely transfer the zip folder containing your result and the summary form. For more information on encryption and how to transfer data via Nextcloud, see the page. If there are any concern about the anonymity of the results, we will be in touch within seven working day of the result being submitted. If you do not hear from u within seven working day of submitting your results, you can proceed with the publication of your results. Apply for a data permit Do you need data on individuals? Apply for a data permit when you need data on individual from multiple public sector social and health controller or the private sector. Submit a data request Do you need anonymous statistical data? Submit a data request to use, when you need aggregated statistical data in table format or key figure from a social and health sector controller. Apply for an amendment permit Is your permit period about to expire or have there been change to the processor of personal data? Apply for an amendment permit from u when an amendment concern a controller permit or information. Check the correct address for the application Select the controller from which the data will be retrieved Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency (The Finnish Digital Agency) Finnish Centre for Pensions Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare Finnish Institute of Occupational Health Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea Ministry of Social Affairs and Health National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Private service provider of social welfare or health care (one or many) Regional state administrative agency Several public service provider of social welfare or health care (more than one wellbeing service county etc.) Single public service provider of social welfare or health care (only one wellbeing service county etc.) Social Insurance Institution of Finland Kela Statistics Finland Apply permit from the controller in question. The exception is those controller who have delegated permit jurisdiction to Findata. Please note that Findata is responsible for data permit and amendment application whenever the data of data controller covered by the Act on secondary use is combined. When evaluating the competent authority, all data related to the application under the Act must be taken into account. Apply permit (s) from the controller in question. Findata is responsible for data permit of the Finnish Center for Pensions (ETK) and the Finnish Digital Agency (DVV) and / or Statistics Finland if the data are combined with data of other public organization under the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data (For Statistics Finland, at least two other organization are needed, for DVV and ETK, one is sufficient) data stored on Kanta service or to the register data of a private social or health care service provider. Apply permit from Findata. Findata is responsible for processing and making decision concerning data permit and amendment applications, when the application applies to: data from numerous public social and health sector controller register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Apply permit from Findata. The Regional Administrative Agencies (AVI) have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. Apply permit from Findata. National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. Apply for a data permit Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) ha delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. As far a THL is concerned, the delegation of jurisdiction doe not apply to it internal permit management the transfer of sample and data transferred to THL Biobank. Permit is applied from Statistics Finland and the respective data controller. Exceptions are the registrar who have delegated the jurisdiction to Findata. We are responsible for data permit for data subject to the Secondary Act of Statistics Finland when they are combined to the information of at least two public organization covered by secondary law to data stored in Kanta service or to the register data of a private social or healthcare service organizer. Apply permit from Findata. Findata is responsible for processing and making decision concerning data permit and amendment applications, when the application applies to: data from numerous public social and health sector controller register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Please select at least one data controller or group. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 22.02.2024 Services and instruction All our service are related to the secondary use of health and social data. This page contains summary on our services, a list of instruction and a list of most frequently asked questions. We provide service to those who need information meaning our customer and party who control data meaning controllers. In addition, we provide information and advice to citizen on where register data are used, on each citizen right under the GDPR and on how we ensure that data protection is implemented. Book a time for personal consultation You can book a time for personal consultation with an expert from Findata. Appointments are available four day a week and last for 20 minutes. The meeting are held remotely via Teams. We offer help in the following topics: General consultation on Findatas service Data permit applications, amendments, and data request Extraction description form and other form Ordering Findatas secure processing environment Kapseli, pausing, and data storage service You can see the available time below. After booking, you will receive a confirmation email and a downloadable calendar reminder. We will send the link to the Teams meeting later. The personal consultation service is provided a a part of the funded by the European Union. On this page Forms for customer The extraction description form is intended for use by applicants, data controller and Findata. The extraction description form allows the applicant to request advice from the controller on the feasibility and cost of the planned extraction before submitting an application for a data permit or a data request to Findata. Read more: and If you have a permit from Findata and you are submitting your own material, file or software to Kapseli, inform u first at data@findata.fi before filling in the form. Read more: Kapseli can also be used in situation where another authority ha authorised the data (e.g. a wellbeing service county or other individual data controller). In these cases, fill in the preliminary inquiry form so that we can make an estimation of the workload and costs. With this form we ask for further information on the file to be combined to Findata data permit so that we can make an estimation of the workload and costs. Fill in only the part relevant to your application. If you are processing data in a secure operating environment other than Findatas Kapseli and are ready to publish the results, download and fill in the summary form. Read more: If you are applying for an amendment to a data permit to add or change person authorised to process the data, attach completed and signed confidentiality agreement to the application. Every added personal data processor must have their own confidentiality agreement. Read more: Services for customer Advice We provide advisory service on this website and via email at . We provide advice on issue such a question related to application for data permits, data request and amendment permits. In addition, we provide general advice on the matter related to Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data. When requiring information content from register or individual piece of data, it is best to contact the controller directly, a they are the best expert when it come to their own data and can provide statutory advisory service on their secondary use.See the page for controller contact details. Read more on the page Data permits, amendment permit and data request We issue data permit for data on individuals, when information is needed from numerous public controllers, the private sector or the Kanta Services. We combine and pre-process data while ensuring the privacy of citizens. We issue amendment permit for previously issued permits, when an amendment applies permit issued by numerous public controllers, Findata or an authority who ha transferred their right to issue permit to Findata. We make decision on data requests, meaning on access to statistical data when the information is needed from a controller within the scope of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data. Read more on the page Combining and pre-processing of data We collect register data from controllers. We pre-process the data disclosed to the permit holder, meaning we combine and pseudonymise, anonymise or produce statistical data of the data compiled from the controller. We convert and combine the permit holder own data to the data obtained through Findata. Read more on the page Secure Kapseli operating environment We provide a secure environment, Kapseli for the processing of data on individuals, where the software required for the analysis of key data are available. According to the Act on Secondary Use of Health and Social Data, starting on 1 May 2022 the analysis of data accessed with a data permit will only be permitted in operating environment that meet the requirement of the regulation. The requirement specify the same level of data security a is required in Kapseli. Read more on the page Instructions for customer (in Finnish) Services for controller Counselling service We provide advisory service on this website and via email at . We provide answer to question concerning such thing a the submission of data, data description and general question concerning the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data Support for creating data description Organisations within the scope of the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data in their role a controller have a statutory obligation to draw up data description on the information content in their information resource in accordance with the Findata Regulation. This is important so that those who need data can ass the suitability of the data for secondary use. We provide free tool for controllers: Data editor, with which data description can be drawn up and a Data catalogue where data description can be published. In addition, we help controller in creating data description by providing training on the use of the aforementioned tools. Anonymisation service If the secondary data use application relates to only one public social and health sector controller, that controller is themselves responsible for processing the data permit application and making the permit decision. However, if the data is disclosed to the permit holder in anonymised form, we will anonymise the data on behalf of the controller and deliver it for the permit holder use. Processing of data permit and amendment application by the controller Public controller may authorise Findata to carry out on their behalf, a detailed in the Secondary Data Act, service other than advice and data description services. In such cases, we also process on behalf of the controller those data permit and amendment application which relate only to the content of the controller own registers. For information on controller who have transferred their authority to issue permits, see the page section titled Instructions for the controller Other service and obligation Rights of data subject pursuant to the EU General Data Protection Regulation Everyone ha the right to their personal data and the right to access information on the use of their personal data With regard to Findatas activities, information on this is available on this website and specifically on the . For information on project that have been issued a permit, see the . If necessary, you can also contact our advisory service. In addition to receiving information, the data subject ha the following right to their data a regard the data held by Findata: Right of access to one personal data Right to rectify one data Right to restrict the processing of one data Right to object to the processing of one data. If you wish to exercise you right pursuant to the GDPR, see the instruction here: Regulations related to the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data The Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data obliges Findata to provide specifying regulation on matter such a secure operating environments, data description and data permit application and data utilisation plans. The regulation are changing in nature and will be updated a necessary. Frequently asked question How to order Kapseli . From the top menu select Submit application Scroll down and select Order or update of the Kapseli operating environment or the data storage service from under Select a new application form from below and click Fill in the application. Complete the application form Enter your own name in the applicant field After this, using the Invite a member button add all the person and email address that need user right to Kapseli The invited person will join using multi factor authentication Complete the rest of the form Please note, that R-Tools is not automatically installed in Kapseli. If you need R-Tools, indicate this in the additional information section of the form. Finally, select Send application from the Actions section. I cant log in to Kapseli what should I do? Before logging in, please make sure that your username is registered and ready to use. If you are not sure whether your account is ready for use, contact your Findata contact person or the Kapseli helpdesk: kapseli@findata.fi. How to log in to Kapseli Installto your phone and activate it. The developer is Duo Security Inc. If youve already installed and activated the app go to point 2. Installing: find Duo Mobile from your phone app store and install it. Activating: the phone number reported when ordering Kapseli will get an automatic activating message for Duo Mobile. The app is activated by clicking the link in the activating message. Log in Kapseli atusing your computer browser. Choose the identification method from the list that you chose while registering. Choose the operating environment youre going to use. If you have just one operating environment in use go to the next section. After choosing the environment the system go to the second phase of identification. The second phase of identification. Log in the operating environment. Youll get a notification about logging in to Duo Mobile. To approve the log in choose Approve in Duo Mobile. Can the data I received via Findata be combined to other information? Data referred to in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data can be combined to other information, such a data a person ha collected themselves or data accessed with some other permit. As a rule, Findata or a statistic authority combine the data. If you wish to combine data later on to data you have received via Findata, send an amendment application for the data to be combined. For more information please see the . If you are applying to have data accessed with an individual consent to be combined with data that Findata ha issued a permit for, the research subject notification and consent model must be attached to the application. If the data have been accessed with the permission of other actors, list the following information in the application: Permit record number, issuer, date of decision. If the permit process is pending, the party to whom the application wa submitted and the permit process start date. A brief description of the information content of other data. Do not attach permit for other data to the application. The application processor will ask for these separately of necessary. See the instruction for sending data on the page . How doe the data controller provide the extracted data to Findata? For instruction on how data controller can submit extracted data, see the . Can my information be disclosed abroad? Free movement of data within the EU is required under the General Data Protection Regulation. However, the law requires that the data is mainly processed in the centralised, secure user environment of the data permit authority for the social and health care sector, and that access right to the environment may only be granted to authorised persons. The permit holder may also be located elsewhere than in Finland. The provision of a data secure user environment is an essential technical measure to safeguard the protection of personal data. If necessary, the data may be disclosed to another secure environment indicated by the permit holder. However, this other environment must meet the criterion of the Findata order, it must be audited against the requirement of the order, and it audit certificate must be valid. Valvira maintains the Toini register, and in these case also the information should only be used for the purpose for which it wa disclosed to the permit holder. The EUs General Data Protection Regulation specifies the condition under which data can be disclosed outside the EU. Health and social data may not be used for marketing or the determination of individual commercial services, such a insurance premiums. Will my data be sold to third parties? No. Findata is the Health and Social Data Permit Authority that grant temporary permit for the secondary processing of social and health care data provided that the statutory permit condition are met. How can I prohibit the secondary use of my data? Everyone ha the right to their personal data and the right to object to the processing of the data. We have compiled instruction on how to exercise your right of objection on the webpage Data protection and processing of personal data. It should be noted that Findata is not the original controller of health and social data. Thus, for example, a request submitted to Findata to object to the use of personal data doe not prevent the disclosure of the data for secondary use by one of the controller referred to in the Act on the Secondary Use of Health and Social Data (Secondary Use Act), Section 6. Unfortunately, Finland doe not have a centralised system through which the secondary use of data can be banned once and for all in a way that is binding on all parties. You can submit a objection request directly to the other actor referred to in Section 6 of the Secondary Use Act: social welfare and health care service providers, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela), the National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health, the Regional State Administrative Agencies, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Fimea, Statistics Finland, the Central Pension Insurance Institute and the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. What is the difference between primary and secondary use of health and social data? Primary use mean the purpose for which the data wa originally saved in the customer register and/or patient register. The primary purpose may be, for example, examination, treatment and rehabilitation of the patient, the service received by a social welfare customer, or the processing of benefit by the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela). Secondary use mean the use of the same data for purpose other than the primary use. Legitimate secondary purpose of use include scientific research, statistics, development and innovation activities, education, knowledge management, steering and supervision by authority and the planning and reporting duty of an authority. Different purpose of use are subject to different regulations. Only aggregated statistic from which individual cannot be identified may be obtained for development and innovation activities. Can I collect the data myself from my own hospital and thus avoid the data controller collection fee? Yes, you can, if this is okay with the controller. The controller ha the right to determine independently the manner in which it carry out the extraction, and it ha the right to use an external processor to carry out the data extraction. If such processor are used, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requires that a data protection agreement (DPA) covering the processing of personal data is signed with them. The controller is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the personal data is processed in a legal manner. The processor, meanwhile, is responsible for ensuring that it complies with the term of the DPA and the instruction of the controller. The collected data must be delivered to Findata securely via the transfer service Nextcloud, after which we combine and pre-process them. Do the collection fee charged by the controller include VAT? This depends on the controller. The data controller determine their own collection fee on the basis of their own regulations. Why is the VAT rate 0% for some payment and 24% for others? Findatas price are based on the decree of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on charge for work carried out by the Health and Social Data Permit Authority. With the exception of Kapseli, the service price are for action under public law that are based on cost value (VAT 0 %). The price for Kapselis service are commercially priced paid service with 24% VAT. The data controller determine their own cost on the basis of their own regulations. On average, how much are Findatas data processing charges? On the page (in Finnish), you can find the average, range and median calculated from the maximum cost estimates. The data is updated quarterly. What are the average collection fee for data controllers? You can find the average, the range and the median calculated from the maximum cost estimate for data extraction in Finnish on the . We update the data quarterly. Can someone other than the permit holder receive the invoices? Possibly. Any inconsistency between the applicant and the invoiced party (e.g. the payer is not the applicant) can be clarified where necessary in the Additional information section. Can I receive a paper invoice? E-invoicing is the primary invoicing method. Paper invoice are only possible in exceptional cases. As a rule, however, the invoice recipient are organisation that only accept e-invoices. If necessary, ask for more information from your organisation financial department. News Findata successfully lead development of Common European Application Forms in HealthData@EU Pilot 02.05.2024 Findata led the task of creating common form for applying electronic health FinRegistry dataset collection now available from Findata 25.04.2024 Findata ha published a new ready-made dataset collection consisting of registry data The FinHITS kick-off brought together more than a hundred expert to plan for the future of secondary use 10.04.2024 A wide range of professional working in the field of secondary use Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 04.03.2024 About the website Accessibility statement This is the accessibility statement of the online service of Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Findata. This accessibility statement concern the findata.fi website and ha been updated on Jan 10, 2024. The accessibility of this digital service wa estimated in May 2022 and The Regional State Administrative Agency for Southern Finland ha carried out an accessibility audit in a simplified control on July 10, 2023. Digital service accessibility status This website ha been built to meet the critical accessibility requirements. According to the assessment, it accessibility is at a good level. Feedback Did you notice an accessibility-related shortcoming in our digital service? Please let u know, and we will do our best to rectify it. Please submit any feedback by email at .Be sure to mention the page which your notification concerns. Supervisory authority If you notice problem with accessibility on the website, please provide feedback to the site administrator by email at . You will receive a response in 14 days. If you are not satisfied with the response or you do not receive a response at all within two weeks, you may submit a notification to the Regional State Administrative Agency for Southern Finland. The website of the Regional State Administrative Agency for Southern Finland provides detailed information on how to submit the notification and how the matter will be handled. Contact detail of the supervisory authority Regional State Administrative Agency for Southern FinlandAccessibility Monitoring UnitE-mail: saavutettavuus(at)avi.fiTel. +358 295 016 000 (exchange) Cookie policy and visitor tracking We use cooky to collect visitor statistics. A cookie is a small text file that is stored in the user browser and store information about visit to our site. If you wish, you can change your cookie setting at any time by clicking the link Cookie Settings found at the bottom of the page. In the Findata.fi web service, visitor tracking is performed using Koko Analytics and Matomo. Koko Analytics A lightweight analytics plugin used on the website. Does not use cooky or external services. Does not collect visitor-specific information, only aggregate counts. Matomo An analytics tool used on the website, which allows u to analyze and improve the functionality and content of the site. Uses cooky to collect information about the site visitor activities: temporary cooky for the duration of the visit and some longer-lasting cooky about the user, such a information on an individual visitor. The data is collected anonymously, and it cannot be linked to individuals. The last two segment are removed from IP addresses, and location data is only general. The data cannot be linked to a specific person, and user cannot be identified based on IP address or location. Social medium and RSS feed The content displayed on the website can be shared on social medium service via the share button provided with the content. Findatas social medium service can be accessed via link at the bottom of each page. RSS feed can be subscribed to via the RSS icon on the page. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by Open menu Close menu Open submenuClose submenu Open menu Close menu Search the site Search Open submenuClose submenu Search the site Search Updated 06.05.2024 Our Privacy Policy On this page you will find information about how we process personal data, how you can exercise your data protection rights, what personal data we collect and what the processing of personal data is based on. Findata becomes a controller of personal data when we receive data from the original data controllers. We process personal data a a data controller when we process applications, provide service that are part of our duties, and carry out our communications. We process contact information of applicant or applicant entity and Kapseli user to send customer notice related to the service and their use. We do not disclose personal data on the rights, interest or obligation of an individual for decision-making purposes. We do not disclose information, for example, insurance company for the purpose of preparing individual insurance decision or to the Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela) for benefit decisions. In addition, we do not disclose data for marketing or to provide commercial services. Compliance with data protection legislation in Finland is monitored by . What are the law on which Findata base the processing of personal data? Findatas legal basis for processing personal data are: Article 6, (1)(e) of the EUs General Data Protection Regulation: processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller Article 4(1)(2) of the Data Protection Act: processing of data that is provided for by the law or that is directly attributable to the controller for the task prescribed by the law We also process data belonging to special category of personal data, formerly known a sensitive data. Such data includes, for example, a person health data. The ground for processing this kind of personal data are: Article 9(2)(g) of the EU General Data Protection Regulation: processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or the exercise of public authority Section 6(1)(2) of the Data Protection Act: processing is necessary and proportionate for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest by a public authority More detailed criterion for processing activity-specific personal data can be found in the privacy notice on this page. See also: Contact ControllerFindata Social and Health Data Permit AuthorityP.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Data Protection OfficerSini Mickelsson Privacy notice The list of privacy notice is not comprehensive. We will complete the listing in early 2024. Pre-processing of data under data permit Purpose of use We issue permit for the secondary use of social and health data when the application applies to data from numerous public social and health sector controller data maintained by a single public controller, that ha transferred the right to issue permit to Findata register data from one or numerous private social welfare and health care service organisers, or customer data saved in the Kanta Services. Data permit can be issued for the purpose of scientific research statistic education planning and reporting duty of an authority Once the data permit ha been issued, we combine and pre-process the data and transfer the pre-processed data to the data recipient for the purpose described in the permit. Pre-processing refers to the action that are taken on data disclosed to Findata by different controller before we hand it over to the data recipient. In pre-processing, we aggregate, combine, pseudonymise, and anonymise data. In principle, we pseudonymise the data before handing it over. Pseudonymisation refers to the processing of data so that it cannot be directly linked to individuals. We disclose information in an identifiable form only for a particularly justified and necessary reason. We store the identifier of pseudonymised data securely. We store the identifier in a way that the data can be made identifiable and the same data can be produced again with the help of identifiers. The purpose of the pre-processing of personal data is to create data set in accordance with the issued permit from the data controller referred to in the Secondary Use Act. We do not use automated decision-making or profiling in the processing of data. Data processed and data source Each data permit specifies which data can be processed based on it. In the pre-processing of data permit, we process the social and health data from controller within the scope of the data permit to the extent that they have been estimated to be necessary for each project. We store identifier that allow u to identify the individual whose data ha been processed in the projects. We do not issue permit for all material of all data controller that are subject to the Secondary Use Act. For more detailed restriction on data, see . Data controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act: Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV) Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK) Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (TTL) Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Kela Statistics Finland Regional state administrative agency (AVI) The data is transferred to Findata and on to the data recipient via a secure transfer service. Regular disclosure of data We disclose the material formed on the basis of the data permit to the data recipient. The recipient then becomes the controller of the transferred data. According to the Secondary Use Act, the data can only be disclosed for processing in a secure operating environment. Recipients of personal data We will disclose the pre-processed data to the data recipient. In the vast majority of data permit we grant, the recipient use the data for scientific research. We use Tieteen Tietotekniikkakeskus Oy (CSC) to carry out the technical maintenance and development of the information system (Viranomaisen tietoturvallinen kyttymprist) we use in pre-processing. CSC act a a processor of personal data on behalf of Findata. Data retention period We will retain the data obtained from data controller and the material formed in the pre-processing for four month after we have disclosed the data to the data recipient. During the retention period, we use the data to correct any possible error made in the pre-processing of the material. In the case of a rolling data permit, i.e. a data permit that entitles the data recipient to receive update to the data, the latest data is retained until the new is formed. If the formation of new data set is based on all previously submitted material, we will retain all material for the duration of the permit. It should be noted that the data recipient retains the data longer than Findata. The permit specifies it period of validity. The controller of the processing is defined in the data permit. We retain the identifier of pseudonymised material for a long a it is necessary to carry out the research and to ensure the validity of it results, in principle for 12 years. Transfer and disclosure of personal data to non-EU or EEA country As a rule, we do not disclose personal data outside the EU or EEA or to international organisations. According to the Secondary Use act, the data must be transferred to a secure operating environment that cannot be located outside the EU and EEA. If we in a specified individual case transfer personal data outside the EU and EEA or to an international organisation on the basis of another law, we will use the transfer basis chosen in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), depending on the country and organisation of destination. If the data recipient a the controller wish to enable the processing of their data from outside the EU and EEA, they must apply to Findata for permission to allow the processing. If we grant permission, the controller must ensure that the material is transferred in accordance with Chapter V of the GDPR, when applicable. Rights of the data subject The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. When we process personal data a a data controller, the data subject ha the following rights: Right to information about the processing of personal data (Article 14 of the GDPR) Right of access to one personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) Right to rectify one data (Article 16 of the GDPR) Right to restrict the processing of one data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Right to object to the processing of one data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In this case, we shall no longer process the data relating to this person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Legal basis of processing personal data The processing of personal data in the pre-processing of data under a data permit is based on the following laws: Act on the Secondary Use of Social and Health Data, Sections 14, 44, and 51, Data Protection Act, Section 4(2), and in the case of special category of personal data, Data Protection Act, Section 6(1)(2), and General Data Protection Regulation, Article 9(2)(g). Pre-processing of data under data request Purpose of use You can obtain statistical data from data controller covered by the Secondary Use Act with a data request. Once we have made a positive data request decision, we combine and pre-process the data needed for the project and hand over the statistical-level data to the data recipient. Data request can be issued for the purpose of scientific research statistic planning and reporting duty of an authority and/or guidance and supervision of a social and healthcare authority education development and innovation operation knowledge management (comparative data) The purpose of the processing of personal data is to form statistical data of the social and health data received from one or more controller under the scope of the Secondary Use Act. We provide only anonymous statistical data on the basis of a data request. In statistical-level data, individual personal data have been combined and summarized. The statistic describe group of person rather than an individual persons. The data of the group of person is formed in such a way that individual cannot be identified or traced. We do not use automated decision-making or profiling in the processing of data. Data processed and data source Each data request decision specifies the basis on which the statistic are to be compiled. In the pre-processing of data under data requests, we process the social and health data received from one or more controller under the scope of the Secondary Use Act to the extent that it ha been assessed to be necessary for each project. We do not compile statistic on all material of all data controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act. For more detailed restriction on data, see. Data controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act: Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV) Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK) Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (TTL) Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Kela Statistics Finland Regional state administrative agency (AVI) The data is transferred to Findata via a secure transfer service. Regular disclosure of data and recipient of personal data We disclose only statistical level data based on data requests. We do not disclose personal data. We use Tieteen Tietotekniikkakeskus Oy (CSC) to carry out the technical maintenance and development of the information system we use to transfer the data and compile the statistics. CSC act a a processor of personal data on behalf of Findata. There are no other category of recipient of personal data because we do not disclose personal data based on data requests. Data retention period We retain data from controller for a period of six month after we have disclosed the statistic we have compiled to the data recipient. During the retention period, we use the data to correct any possible error in the compilation of statistics. In the case of a rolling data request, i.e. statistic are compiled and delivered at regular interval on the basis of updated data, we will retain the data for six month from the last delivery. Transfer and disclosure of personal data to non-EU or EEA country We do not disclose personal data outside the EU or EEA. The statistic compiled on the basis of the data request do not contain personal data, so they can also be disclosed outside the EU member states. Rights of the data subject The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. When we process personal data a a data controller, the data subject ha the following rights: Right to information about the processing of personal data (Article 14 of the GDPR) Right of access to one personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) Right to rectify one data (Article 16 of the GDPR) Right to restrict the processing of one data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Right to object to the processing of one data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In this case, we shall no longer process the data relating to this person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Legal basis of processing personal data The processing of personal data in the pre-processing of the data under a data request is based on the following laws: Act on Secondary Use of Social and Health Data (552/2019) Sections 14 and 45, General Data Protection Regulation Article 6(1)(e), Data Protection Act Section 4(2) and, in the case of special category of personal data, the Data Protection Act Section 6(1)(2) and the General Data Protection Regulation Article 9(2)(g). Processing of data permit application and data request Purpose of use Findatas statutory duty include processing data permit application and data request and issuing administrative decision on them. We accept data permit application and data request through Findatas data request management system. We process personal data relating to applicant or representative of applicant organisation for the purpose of processing applications, decision-making and invoicing. We process contact information of applicant or applicant entity to send customer notice related to the service and their use. In principle, the applicant must identify themselves using the Suomi.fi service when applying for a data permit or a data request. Data permit applications, data request and the decision on them are stored in the case management system in accordance with the authority data management regulation. The case management system used by Findata is maintained by the National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL). Draft application are stored in the case management system so that the applicant can, if necessary, pause the drafting of the application and return to it at a later date. We do not use automated decision-making or profiling in our data processing. Data processed and data source We collect the information about those applying for data permit and data request that they provide in the application or request.This information includes the name, position or title of the applicant or their contact person, contact detail and the name and affiliation of the person entitled to process personal data. We also process data for billing purposes. If the data recipient is a private individual, the billing information also includes personal data. In addition, the application may include the name and contact information of the person delivering the target group to Findata. In addition, we maintain a log system that allows u to track and store personal data from the various stage of processing data permit application and data requests. When an application for a data permit or data request is submitted, we store the personal data required for strong electronic identification of the applicant that is transmitted by the Suomi.fi service. . We record application for data permit and data request in the case management system Helmi maintained by THL. Regular disclosure of data and recipient of personal data We do not disclose the personal data provided in data permit application or data request on a regular basis. We publish information on data permit and data request that we have issued. If the data recipient is a private individual, we do not publish their name. We disclose information to those requesting it in accordance with the Act on the Openness of Government Activities. As a rule, the information on the application for a permit and the person who made the data request is public, a it is not explicitly provided for to be kept secret. We use Tieteen Tietotekniikkakeskus Oy (CSC) to carry out the technical maintenance and development work of the data request management system. CSC act a a processor of personal data on behalf of Findata. We record data permit application and data request in the case management system maintained by THL. Persons working at THL whose duty include processing Findatas document have access to the data. Findata is an independent unit operating in connection with THL. Data retention period We retain data permit application permanently, and data request for a period of ten year from their initiation. We retain the data permit decision permanently and the data request decision for a period of ten year from the date of their issuance. We retain draft application and data request that have not been submitted to Findata for 180 day from the last edit. Applications that have not been modified for 180 day will be automatically removed from the system. Transfer and disclosure of personal data to non-EU or EEA country We do not disclose personal data outside the EU or EEA. Rights of the data subject The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. When we process personal data contained in an application for data permit or a data request, the data subject ha the following rights: Right to information about the processing of personal data (Article 14 of the GDPR) Right of access to one personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) Right to rectify one data (Article 16 of the GDPR) Right to restrict the processing of one data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Right to object to the processing of one data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In this case, we shall no longer process the data relating to this person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Legal basis of processing personal data The processing of personal data for processing data permit and data request application is based on the following laws: Act on the Secondary Use of Social and Health Data (552/2019) Sections 44 and 45, General Data Protection Regulation Article 6(1)(e) and Data Protection Act Section 4(2). Ready-made datasets Purpose of use We offer thematic datasets which are pre-compiled and processed data entities. The ready-made datasets are available through Findata more quickly on the basis of a data permit, without having to request cost estimate or extract from the controllers. Pre-processing refers to the action that are taken on data disclosed to Findata by different controller before we deliver it to the data recipient. Pre-processing includes aggregating, combining, pseudonymising, and anonymising data. Pseudonymisation refers to the conversion of personal data into a encrypted form. In this case, name and personal identification number may be removed and replaced with another unique identifier, i.e. a code. Often, a code key is retained in order to return direct personal information to the data. Pseudonymised data is still personal data. In principle, we pseudonymise the data before handing it over. We will only disclose information in identifiable form for a particularly justified and necessary reason. Anonymising mean changing personal data to make it irreversibly impossible to identify an individual. This can mean, for example, removing direct identifier and the coarsening the data to a general level so that personal data cannot be changed back to be identifiable in any way. Findata selects the subject matter of the ready-made data set and the data on which they are based. The purpose of the processing of personal data is to compile datasets in accordance with the chosen theme and, a a general rule, to disclose pseudonymised personal data or statistic compiled from ready-made datasets to the data recipient. We do not use automated decision-making or profiling in the processing of data. Data processed and data source In compiling the ready-made datasets, we process the social and health data received from one or more controller under the scope of the Secondary Use Act to the extent deemed necessary for each project. We cannot form ready-made material on the basis of all material of all controller within the scope of the law. For more detailed restriction on data, see. Data controller within the scope of the Secondary Use Act: Data saved in Kanta service Digital and Population Data Services Agency (DVV) Finnish Centre for Pensions (ETK) Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (TTL) Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea National Supervisory Authority for Welfare and Health Valvira Public and private service provider of social welfare and health care Social Insurance Institution of Finland Kela Statistics Finland Regional state administrative agency (AVI) The data is transferred to Findata and on to the data recipient via a secure transfer service. Regular disclosure of data We disclose the ready-made dataset to the data recipient. The data recipient then becomes the controller of the transferred data. Under the Secondary Use Act, the data can only be disclosed for processing in a secure operating environment. When statistical data is requested from the ready-made datasets, the data to be disclosed doe not contain personal data. Recipients of personal data We will disclose the data to the data recipient. In the vast majority of data permit we grant, the data recipient use the data for scientific research. We use Tieteen Tietotekniikkakeskus Oy (CSC) to carry out technical maintenance and development. CSC act a a processor of personal data on behalf of Findata. Data retention period We define the retention period for each ready-made dataset separately. In addition, the data recipient who ha obtained the ready-made dataset on the basis of the data permit retains the data for a specified period of time. The controller of this processing is the data recipient. Transfer and disclosure of personal data to non-EU or EEA country As a rule, we do not disclose ready-made datasets outside the EU or EEA or to international organisations. According to the Secondary Use act, personal data must be transferred to a secure operating environment that cannot be located outside the EU and EEA. If the data recipient a the controller wish to enable the processing of their data from outside the EU and EEA, they must apply to Findata for permission to allow the processing. If we grant permission, the controller must ensure that the material is transferred in accordance with Chapter V of the GDPR, when applicable. Rights of the data subject The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. When we process personal data to form ready-made materials, the data subject ha the following rights: Right to information about the processing of personal data (Article 14 of the GDPR) Right of access to one personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) Right to rectify one data (Article 16 of the GDPR) Right to restrict the processing of one data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Right to object to the processing of one data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In this case, we shall no longer process the data relating to this person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Legal basis of processing personal data The processing of personal data in the formation of ready-made datasets is based on the following laws: Act on Secondary Use of Social and Health Data (552/2019) Sections 14 and 51, General Data Protection Regulation Article 6(1)(e), Data Protection Act Section 4(2) and, in the case of special category of personal data, the Data Protection Act Section 6(1)(2) and the General Data Protection Regulation Article 9(2)(g). Ordering and using Kapseli Purpose of use Kapseli is a secure operating environment provided by Findata, where you can process individual level data obtained under a data permit issued by Findata or another authority. Kapseli is used via a remote connection by logging in via a browser. The controller for the processing of material in Kapseli is defined in the data permit. In this case, Findata act a a data processor on behalf of that controller. We process the personal data of Kapseli user a a data controller in order to provide the function of Kapseli, ensure information security and the lawfulness of the processing of personal data and carry out billing. We process contact information of Kapseli user to send user notice related to Kapseli and it use. We also use the number of Kapseli user to develop and administer the service. We do not use automated decision making or profiling in our data processing. Data processed and data source When ordering Kapseli, we collect the following information about the person ordering Kapseli: name telephone number email address organisation information The person ordering Kapseli also enters the information of any other person who need access right to the environment. The name and email address of these individual are collected. The information is obtained either from the data subject themselves or on their behalf from the person who placed the order. Logging into Kapseli is primarily done through two-step authentication via the Suomi.fi service. Regular disclosure of data and recipient of data We do not disclose data about Kapseli user on a regular basis. We use Tieteen Tietotekniikkakeskus Oy (CSC) to carry out technical maintenance and development. CSC act a a processor of personal data on behalf of Findata. Data retention period We retain the data for the duration of the Kapseli subscription and for a long a necessary for billing purposes. Transfer and disclosure of personal data to non-EU or EEA country We do not disclose data outside the EU or EEA or to international organisations. Rights of the data subject The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. When processing personal data of Kapseli users, the data subject ha the following rights: Right to be informed about the processing of personal data (Article 13 of the GDPR) Right of access to one personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) Right to rectify one data (Article 16 of the GDPR) Right to restrict the processing of one data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Right to object to the processing of one data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In this case, we shall no longer process the data relating to this person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Legal basis of processing personal data The processing of personal data of Kapseli user is based on the following laws: General Data Protection Regulation, Art. 6(1)(e) and Data Protection Act, Section 4(2). Exercising your right a a data subject Purpose of use Everyone ha the possibility to exercise their right a a data subject in Findatas operations. The data subject refers to the person to whom the original social and health information relate. When we process personal data a a controller, the data subject ha the following rights: Right to information about the processing of personal data (Article 14 of the GDPR) Right of access to one personal data (Article 15 of the GDPR) Right to rectify one data (Article 16 of the GDPR) Right to restrict the processing of one data (Article 18 of the GDPR) Right to object to the processing of one data (Article 21 of the GDPR) The data subject ha the right to object to the processing of personal data by u at any time on ground relating to their particular situation. In that case, we will no longer process the data relating to that person, unless there are substantial and legitimate ground for the processing which override the interests, right and freedom of the data subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. In order to be able to carry out a request for the data subject right, we need to process the personal data provided in connection with the request. Data processed and data source We collect the following information about the person who have made request to exercise the right of the data subject: name social security number contact information In addition, we collect data depending on which right the data subject wish to exercise. For individual who exercise their right to restrict or object to the processing of their data (Articles 18 and 21 of the GDPR), we will record, in addition to the information above, the reason for restricting or objecting to the use of the data. We implement the right to restrict and object on the basis of social security numbers. We remove the data of individual who have exercised the right to object or restrict from the data we receive by comparing the data with the social security number and removing the detailed information contained in the data relating to those individuals. In addition to the above, the following data from the data subject are collected from a person exercising their right to rectification (Article 16 of the GDPR): which data is to be corrected to which format the data is to be corrected Regular disclosure of data and recipient of data Requests concerning the right of the data subject are recorded in the case management system maintained by the National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL). Persons working at THLs registry, whose duty include registering and handling matter initiated at Findata, have access to the information contained in the initiation documents. Findata is an independent unit operating in connection with THL. We disclose information to those requesting it in accordance with the . The content of request for the right of the data subject may contain confidential information that will not be disclosed without the separately provided right of access or the consent of the data subject. The content of request for the right of the data subject are not regularly disclosed. When anonymous statistical information is requested from Findata, which is formed on the basis of data held by THL, THL form the statistic requested. In this case, we ask THL to exclude from the compilation of the statistic the information relating to the social security number of the individual who have exercised their right to restrict and object to the processing of their data. For this purpose, we transfer to THL the social security number of these individual via a secure transfer service. The purpose of this policy is to minimize the number of time the social security number are transferred between Findata and THL, and to ensure that the data of person who have exercised the right to object and restrict is excluded from the formation of the data a early a possible. Legal basis of processing personal data The processing of personal data when processing request for data subject right is based on the following laws: Article 6(1)(e) and Articles 12 to 21 of the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 4(2) of the Data Protection Act and, in the case of special category of personal data, Article 6(1)(2) of the Data Protection Act. Help desk General: Kapseli: Data transfers: Address Findata Finnish Social and Health Data Permit Authority Mannerheimintie 166, Helsinki P.O. BOX 30, FI-00301 Helsinki, Finland Follow u Findata Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can access the setting later from the page. .Cookie setting Close About cooky Cookies help u to develop our website and to improve it content and availability. Some cooky are necessary to ensure that the website function properly. You can accept all cooky or just the necessary cookies. Necessary Always Enabled Some cooky are necessary to ensure that website function properly. Necessary cooky are used, for example, for functionality where the user make selections. Necessary cooky are stored automatically, without your separate consent, on your browser when you use the website. Necessary cooky are stored on your browser for up to one year. Analytics We use Matomo software to monitor the visitor statistic on the site.CookieDurationDescription_pk_id13 monthsMatomo cookie. Used to store a few detail about the user such a the unique visitor ID._pk_ses30 minutesMatomo cookie. Short lived cooky used to temporarily store data for the visit. Powered by