FIWAREs mission: building an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that ease the development of new Smart Applications in multiple sectors. Together with it member and partners, FIWARE Foundation drive the definition and the Open Source implementation of key open standard that enable the development of portable and interoperable smart solution in a faster, easier and affordable way, avoiding vendor lock-in scenarios, whilst also nurturing FIWARE a a sustainable and innovation-driven business ecosystem. What is the FIWARE Foundation? The FIWARE Foundation is the legal independent body providing shared resource to help achieve the FIWARE mission by promoting, augmenting, protecting, and validating the FIWARE technology a well a the activity of the FIWARE community, empowering it member including end-users, developer and rest of stakeholder in the entire ecosystem. The FIWARE Foundation is open: anybody can join contributing to transparent governance of FIWARE activity and rising through the ranks, based on merit. FIWARE Foundation is a non-profit organization that drive the definition and encourages the adoption of open standard (implemented using Open Source technologies) that ease the development of smart solution across domain such a Smart Cities, Smart Energy, Smart AgriFood and Smart Industry, based on FIWARE technology. Founded in 2016, the foundation ha Atos, Engineering, NEC, Red Hat, Telefonica, and Trigyn Technologies among it Platinum members. Only by truly eliminating the existing technical and commercial obstacle hindering the effective usage of meaningful data, smart digital solution provider will be able to move forward and drive the market up, based on FIWARE technology. +530 Developers using FIWARE technology +645 FIWARE Members 200+ Powered by FIWARE solution in the Marketplace 150+ Open Source Projects 100+ Evangelists 40 FIWARE iHubs +35 Global Strategic and Media Partnerships 2 FIWARE Lab Nodes 15+ Global event per year Want to quickly find out more about FIWARE? Download the One Pager Company Profile. THE FIWARE MISSION To develop an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that will ease the creation of Smart Applications in multiple sectors. FIWARE TECHNOLOGIES Using FIWARE technologies, organization can capture the opportunity that are emerging with the new wave of digitalisation brought by combining the Internet of Things with Context Information Management and Big Data service on the Cloud. Using FIWARE technologies, developer can gather context information at large scale from many different sources. FIWARE also help to easily process, analyse and visualize managed context information, easing the implementation of the smart behaviour and the enhanced user experience required by next-generation Smart Applications. FIWARE COMMUNITY The FIWARE Community comprises all individual and organization contributing achieving the FIWARE Mission. The FIWARE Community is not only formed by contributor to the technology (the Open Source Community working on the FIWARE platform), but also those who contribute in building the FIWARE ecosystem and making it sustainable over time. HOW ACTIVITIES ARE COORDINATED The FIWARE Technical Steering Committee governs the technical direction of the FIWARE platform and activity of the FIWARE Open Source Community. Governance of the rest of activity carried out by member of the FIWARE Community is organized throughMission Support Committees. Are you already contributing? Dont forget to Willing to contribute your technology to FIWARE? Goals and objective Empower To build a powerful, sustainable and profitable ecosystem by available mean such a organisation of all sort of events, information, discussion and other activity DEVELOPERS To bring best-of-breed tool to write great code, manage the development process and benefit from quality validation process USERS To access great software easing the development of new solutions, making the best use of the, being able to provide feedback and benefit from large-scale testing facility COMPANIES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS The FFs member to organize all sort of events, information, discussion and other activity and resources. Promote The new technology integrated in FIWARE, fostering their adoption a de-facto standard The developer producing such new technology The offering built with or around FIWARE Technologies The user of the FIWARE Technologies who build such offering The FIWARE ecosystem a a catalyser for economic opportunity Augment Increasing interface for connectivity Consolidating or Promoting Standards Increasing use case for new application domain Protect The FIWARE trademark The compliance with the FIWARE Code of Conduct FIWARE Technologies by ensuring they remain available a Open Source The openness, meritocracy and transparency which guide the decision making Validate The labelling qualifying the Quality Assurance of the FIWARE Technologies Organizations that own the expertise to validate Powered by FIWARE solutions, FIWARE IoT-ready device or people/organizations capable to provide FIWARE development, integration, training and consulting service Driving adoption FIWARE is the result of a joined effort from different organization to find common mechanism supporting cities, industry, and community to become interoperable. FIWARE ha gained relevance due to it vendor-neutral approach defining standard that make it possible for all type of business and industry to build and share portable and interoperable smart solution around the globe. Its driven-by-implementation approach, in opposite to designed-by-committee, ensures an agile adoption of the technology. SMART CITIES FIWARE is enabling a new generation of smarter application which exploit large scale, real-time context information. Our effort focus on the promotion of the interoperability and the free flow of data within and between smart cities, the collaboration between city for the adoption of common standard that can enable a landscape of diverse but interoperable Smart City solutions. FIWARE is boosting the creation of a sizable market on which developer can start investing and city provide the basis for the development of an Economy of Data. SMART INDUSTRY The digitization of the economy relies on how we take value of data. How we transform data into context information that can be processed (gathered and offered) in a standard way. A way that will enable the creation of smart digital system based on the contextual interaction of applications, implementing process between themselves and with physical and virtual objects, across the whole value chain. That includes connecting people by connecting their digital personas, through sensor and other devices. SMART AGRIFOOD Agricultural worker must take advantage of the technology available in order to optimize and correct inefficiency throughout the whole agricultural process. Agribusiness is one of the most vital domain in which smart technology need to be urgently applied. Leveraging mobile, web and data technology to disrupt the current agricultural sector is essential, turning a vast, essential but often old-fashioned business sector, into a vibrant, productive and sustainable Smart Agribusiness. SMART ENERGY What wa once a direct value chain is now transforming itself into complex ecosystems. To reflect this change, supply and demand are constantly optimized in real time and at a very detailed level. The main characteristic of a local energy community is the integration of different energy vector to increase the level of local flexibility. This requires going beyond the electricity sector. FIWARE technology support the seamless merging of sector and enable the development of new energy domains. OUR PARTNERS Meet our fantastic Community and Media Partners. Join Us The Organization or Individual who wish to become Member of the FIWARE Foundation shall: Apply to the Secretary and provide the information required by the Board of Directors. Sign a Membership Agreement. Signature of the Membership Agreement implies that the Organisation or Individual applying for membership complies with the obligation of FIWARE Foundation Members a defined in the Bylaws, the Association Code, the Fee Code, and the Code of Conduct. Extended information about the governance body of the FIWARE Foundation, the membership, the specific right and duty of each type of member and the process to become member, could be found at . ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Governance & Committees Meet the different body working hard both behind the scene and at the forefront to support the FIWARE mission. apps FIWARE Officers & Committees Board of Directors Board of Officers Technical Steering Committee FIWARE Scientific Advisory Board Mission Support Committees group Board of Officers Andrea Battaglia Chief Executive Officer, Acting CTO read_more Read more Laura Ileana Schipani Acting CMO read_more Read more Stefano De Panfilis Chief Operations Officer read_more Read more group FIWARE Members Organizations From the biggest player within the global market to cutting-edge SMEs to renowned trade associations, our member are an inspiring source of open innovation and collaboration. Individual Members Wholeheartedly passionate about open source tech, and open common standards, our individual member doubletap our effort to superpower open technology innovation. FIWARE Team Meet our international FIWARE team of hard-working professionals. badge Careers Join our hard-working international team on it mission to drive the definition and adoption of open standards. verified Join Us Become a FIWARE Foundation member. Submit your membership application and unlock a multitude of benefits. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE Team Meet our international FIWARE team of hard-working professionals. filter_alt Show Filters account_tree Governance Meet the different body working hard both behind the scene and at the forefront to support the FIWARE mission. badge Careers Join our hard-working international team on it mission to drive the definition and adoption of open standards. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Work with u Join u on our journey towards a growing open ecosystem, common standard and freedom from vendor lock-in. Work with u Join our team on it journey towards a growing open ecosystem, common standard and freedom from vendor lock-in. At FIWARE, Open Source and open interface have been the core to our mission and are central to our value and culture. FIWARE Foundation, the EU-born and worldwide active non-profit organisation that drive the definition and encourages the adoption of open standard across multiple domain based on Open Source technology to ease the development of smart digital solution is growing quickly and thus searching for additional peer to join our team in Berlin or from your home office. apps Open Positions filter_alt Search and Filter Andrea Kather Assistant to the BOO Contact u Need support? Please contact Andrea. Name Email Address Message Submit |||||| 2023 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes CONTACT US You can ask for info/help about FIWARE and forward specific request to u by sending a message to any of the following contact emails. A good practice before asking for info/help is that you first check theanswers already provided in our . All the query sent to these list generate ticket with all the available detail published on the internet (including names, emailaddresses, etc.). If you do not agree to this please do not send message to them. Please take the time to check which mailing address best suit yourquestion and/or purpose. It may help to provide a faster response. The General Help mailing address is for those with non-technical question and/or who want general info/help about FIWARE. Information such a What is FIWARE?, What are FIWAREs goal and what is it value proposition? and How do I join the FIWARE Foundation?. Before sending a request to this mailing list we encourage checking out the other mailing list to make sure it is the right list for your needs. fiware-general-help play a fundamental role in growing the global community of developers, company and city adopting and contributing to FIWARE. A FIWARE iHub offer a number of service to company who want to become more competitive in the digital economy. Want to contribute to the FIWARE iHubs initiative, or even better, set up a FIWARE iHub in your region? Let u know, wed be more than happy to assist you! fiware-ihubs-help Via this email, we look forward to receiving question and request from medium and press. Looking to stay up-to-date with the latest FIWARE news, event or opportunities, a well a development in and around FIWARE? Then follow u on Twitter via @FIWARE. fiware-press-req Are you organizing an event or workshop in the near future and looking for someone who can represent FIWARE by mean of a presentation, or something else? Let u know and we will do our best to find a suitable candidate for you. Before sending out your email, have a look at the, who are already spreading the word through their technological know-how and experience with FIWARE. If one (or more) of them sound like the right person for the task then dont forget to mention who. fiware-speakers-req Use this email address when you have technical question about FIWARE, including request for technical support or enhancement on reference implementation of FIWARE GEs (Generic Enablers). Non-trivial technical request will be transferred to StackOverflow, where they will then be answered. Before emailing u it might be a good idea to check whether your question ha already been answered on . fiware-tech-help This email should be used to communicate request for technical support on the usage of theFIWARE Lab.Non-trivial technical request will be transferred to StackOverflow, where they will then be answered. Before emailing u it might be a good idea to check whether your question ha already been answered on . fiware-lab-help Are you looking to collaborate with FIWARE in some shape or form, or do you wish to use FIWARE in one of your projects? Dont hesitate to contact us, wed love to hear about it and always welcome proposals. fiware-collaboration-req The objective of is to promote the adoption of FIWARE in European region and internationally reaching country outside Europe where the take-up of Internet innovation can occur and impact local markets. Want to contribute to the FIWARE Mundus initiative, or even better, set up a FIWARE Lab node in your region? Let u know, wed be more than happy to assist you! fiware-mundus-req FOLLOW US PRESS For any question or request regarding medium coverage please contact . ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes PRESS AREA For further information about u or for interview requests, please contact: Kseniia Chernikovakseniia (dot) chernikova (at) fiware (dot) org BRAND GUIDE Different logo have been developed for different necessities. Via the Brand Guide you can download all the FIWARE and FIWARE sub brand logo in different versions, colour and layouts, differentiating also printed and online uses. For any other question about the FIWARE Brand Guide, you can contact us. MULTIMEDIA BOARD OF OFFICERS ANDREA BATTAGLIACEO, FIWARE Foundation STEFANO DE PANFILISCOO, FIWARE Foundation PRESS RELEASES Apr 29, 2024 FIWARE Foundation join force with tech and business community across North America tounlock the power of open-source techno... Apr 11, 2024 The Battery Pass Consortium, release the study "Value of the EU Battery Passport", which shed light on the benefit and chall... Mar 26, 2024 The Battery Pass Consortium, composed of eleven leading international industry, technology, and science organisation ha launc... Mar 7, 2024 This premier event is taking place 12 14 March 2024 in Darmstadt, Germany. Feb 13, 2024 The four European Testing and Experimentation Facilities (TEFs) announce their readiness for business! FIWARE and other consort... Jan 29, 2024 FIWARE Foundation announced that Mr. Yasunori Mochizuki ha been appointed a the new chairman of the FIWARE Board of Directors... Jan 2, 2024 The latest release includes update to all NGSI-LD context broker (Stellio, Orion-LD and Scorpio) Dec 15, 2023 Andrea Battaglia will become the next Chief Executive Officer of FIWARE Foundation and a member of the Board of Officers. Nov 23, 2023 FIWARE Foundation drive technology innovation alongside a global development and business community by increasing economic re... Sep 29, 2023 FIWARE Foundation announced that FIWAREs CEO Ulrich Ahle will become CEO successor of Gaia-X from November 1, 2023 Sep 27, 2023 Cooperation between FIWARE, the ruhrvalley Cluster e.V. and IDEASFORUM is a milestone for the Ruhr Metropolitan Region (Germany) Aug 28, 2023 FIWARE Foundation together with German consortium partner launched the new project NeMo.bil to implement innovative approaches... Jul 12, 2023 The FIWARE iHubs network continues to show growth expanding to a network of 39 iHubs around the world and add 5 new locations:... Jul 5, 2023 The FIWARE 8.4 patch release a large number of new security component relevant to data spaces, and new data connectors. Jun 29, 2023 TEF aim to deliver responsible AI in Europe by testing solution before they become a part of healthcare, manufacturing, agri-... Jun 12, 2023 FIWARE launched the new edition of the FIWARE4Cities Book, that list more than 350 Smart Cities, deep-dives into 145 of them w... Jun 12, 2023 This white paper provides a deep expert view on how data space are transforming data sharing, and establishing new frameworks. Jun 6, 2023 Executives of AWS, ms.Gis, Raseel and Red Hat will be Keynote speaker at the Grand Opening and Grand Closing of the FIWARE Glo... Jun 5, 2023 DOME consortium ha launched the EU project to deploy a Distributed Open Marketplace for Cloud and Edge Services in Europe. May 22, 2023 +150 worldwide expert and Open Source gurus, + 600 member worldwide and hundred participant will meet in one of the most di... May 11, 2023 FIWARE is proud to announce two new iHubs developing it network around the world. They will be awarded during the Grand Openin... Apr 17, 2023 The Content Guidance wa officially handed over at Hannover Messe to Michael Kellner, Parliamentary State Secretary, BMWK, in a... Apr 4, 2023 European consortium launch project to increase availability and usage of open datasets, leveraging the development of new gen... Dec 22, 2022 FIWARE Foundation, iSHARE and FundingBox announce the start of 17 European experiment that were selected a a part of the i4Tr... Nov 17, 2022 FIWARE Foundation and Rey Juan Carlos University were awarded the Asedie Award 2022 for Promoting Data Knowledge. Nov 9, 2022 The Enershare project will develop and deploy a unique and first of it kind Common European Energy Data Space. Oct 12, 2022 The new Data Spaces Support Centre (DSSC) is kicked-off by DVBA, Gaia-X, FIWARE, IDSA, Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft and representati... Sep 29, 2022 The first physical event after 2.5 year saw 400+ attendee from around the world, bringing 150+ speaker on stage giving about... Sep 19, 2022 Madinah City signed a Membership Agreement at FIWARE Global Summit to become FIWAREs 8th Platinum Member - and for the first t... Sep 14, 2022 FIWARE Foundation is proud to announce five new FIWARE iHubs that will be proudly presented at the Grand Opening Ceremony of th... Sep 2, 2022 FundingBox, Clean Carbon, Red Hat, Telefnica became the Global Business Sponsor and Keystone Sponsors of the 8th FIWARE Global... Aug 25, 2022 Germany, Italy, Spain, UK, USA: the Global Media Partners have teamed up to support the 8th FIWARE Global Summit Jul 12, 2022 Amazon Web Services ha joined FIWARE Foundation a a Platinum Member. Jun 24, 2022 Herne became the 28th iHub in global FIWARE iHubs network for smart city technology transfer, digital education and competencie... Jun 17, 2022 The FIWARE Community, with it more than 520 member worldwide, will meet at FIWAREs 8th Global Summit in Las Palmas de Gran C... Jun 7, 2022 The leader of the winning project will be awarded in a dedicated ceremony on 15 September at the FIWARE Global Summit in Gra... May 4, 2022 We are excited to announce that i4trust launch it Second Open Call on May 4, 2022 to support European SMEs and DIHs for the ... May 4, 2022 FIWARE Foundation and the Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) will benefit greatly from the sharing of multiple data model and ... Apr 25, 2022 We are excited to share the extraordinary news a April mark the start of a new 3-years German-funded R&D project Battery Pas... Mar 16, 2022 Pioneer use case for the Public Administration and Agrifood sector now available integrating Blockchain. Jan 24, 2022 FIWARE, iSHARE and FundingBox launch the i4Trust initiative that will mobilise 5.8 million euro to boost data sharing and faci... Jan 17, 2022 The new Alliance will drive the development of standard-based smart solution Dec 2, 2021 FIWARE and OASC enter into a new collaborative agreement to continue strategic partnership Nov 30, 2021 FIWARE and the ICT Innovation Network of Slovenia Drive Open Source and Open Standards Nov 2, 2021 The FIWARE iHubs Network welcome five new iHubs from the U.S, Brazil, Morocco and Spain. Sep 23, 2021 One voice and a common framework to make data space happen; Bringing together data providers, user and intermediaries, data... Aug 11, 2021 Berlin, August 11, 2021 FIWARE Foundation, the non-profit organization that drive the definition and encourages the adoption... Jun 23, 2021 The new FIWARE iHubs in France and Sweden will expand the potential for local business and further disseminate FIWARE technol... May 12, 2021 Selected SMEs and DIHs will receive up to 120,000 to implement their innovative experiment concept, along with training, and m... Feb 17, 2021 A collaborative agreement to accelerate the development, deployment, and wide-scale adoption of open digital twin technologies. Dec 14, 2020 i4Trust will contribute towards building the foundation for Data Spaces, thereby facilitating trustworthy and effective data sh... Nov 17, 2020 FIWARE and the IUDX Program collaborate to build an Open Source platform that facilitates secure, authenticated, and managed ex... Oct 1, 2020 The OLIOT mediation gateway (OLIOT-MG), developed by KAIST, ha become an integral part of the FIWARE Catalogue. Oct 1, 2020 By becoming FIWARE iHubs, organization expand the potential for local business and further disseminate FIWARE technologies. Sep 29, 2020 La Fundacin FIWARE y Alastria anuncian hoy la firma de un Acuerdo de Colaboracin con el fin de fomentar la integracin de tec... Sep 29, 2020 FIWARE and Alastria join force to foster the integration of DLTs into the architecture of smart solution powered by FIWARE. Sep 17, 2020 Die Stadtwerke Lbeck Tochtergesellschaft TraveKom wird Gold-Mitglied im FIWARE-Verbund. Sep 17, 2020 The Stadtwerke Lbeck subsidiary TraveKom ha signed a cooperation agreement to become a FIWARE Gold Member. Aug 10, 2020 Als digitale Referenz in Deutschland treibt die Stadt Paderborn ihre digitale Transformation mit FIWARE-Technologien weiter voran. Aug 10, 2020 A digital reference within Germany, the city of Paderborn is further driving it digital transformation with FIWARE technologies. Aug 5, 2020 FIWARE Accelerator strives to bring SMEs and startup to the forefront of innovation, based on Open Source development models. Jul 16, 2020 The FIWARE Digital Innovation Hubs (FIWARE iHubs) network reach roughly 25 on a global basis. Jul 10, 2020 The first half of 2020 wa marked by several noteworthy achievement for FIWARE Foundation. May 20, 2020 Red Hats membership lends further support to FIWARE a an Open Source standard driver. May 18, 2020 FIWARE Foundation join 180+ organization worldwide committed to ensuring sustainable, efficient, and collaborative Smart Mobi... Mar 24, 2020 The South Europe Startup Awards annually celebrate startup that have shown outstanding community and business achievements. Mar 18, 2020 Berlin, March 18, 2020 FIWARE Foundation, the non-profit organisation that encourages the adoption of standard and ope... Feb 28, 2020 We plan to set out joint initiative to promote data sharing and call for the implementation of international standards. Jan 8, 2020 LEDGER is now looking for the next group of developers, researcher and entrepreneur to apply for their 2nd Open Call. Jan 8, 2020 The result will drive the standardization of data model for autonomous mobile robots. Dec 11, 2019 The Italian City adopted the FIWARE-based WiseTown tech platform to facilitate collaboration in urban planning process. Dec 5, 2019 Share visions, experience and new business idea on how to monetize FIWARE at the FIWARE Global Summit. Dec 5, 2019 2 da para compartir visiones, experiencias y nuevas va de negocio alrededor de FIWARE. Nov 20, 2019 Through this relationship, ATOS and SENSATIVE will co-operate in the development and go to market with joint offerings. Nov 5, 2019 A. Castro Servicios y Tecnologa S.A. becomes FIWAREs 16th iHub worldwide. Oct 28, 2019 North Africas ICT Hub Consortium join force with FIWARE to deliver IoT and high tech IT solution across the North Africa re... Oct 25, 2019 Together with it parent company, Stadtwerke Wolfsburg AG, WOBCOM GmbH play an important role within the #WolfsburgDigital ini... Oct 25, 2019 Gemeinsam mit ihrer Muttergesellschaft, der Stadtwerke Wolfsburg AG, spielt WOBCOM GmbH eine wichtige Rolle innerhalb der Initi... Oct 23, 2019 The City of Herne aim to further promote it digital scene and build an innovation friendly ecosystem for it local economy. Oct 23, 2019 IOTA Co-Founder Dominik Schiener is to speak on Distributed Ledger Technologies at the FIWARE 7th Global Summit. Oct 17, 2019 For many decades, ENGINEERING ha been accompanying city in Germany (and beyond) on their quest towards digital transformation. Oct 7, 2019 TeamDev wa ranked a one of the best company in the Smart City category Smart Idea Award at the GITEX Awards 2019. Sep 27, 2019 We could not be more excited about this partnership, which includes, amongst others, a commitment to the promotion of FIWARE tech. Sep 24, 2019 Mr. Ahle will present how standard APIs and standard data model combined with open source software. Sep 10, 2019 FIWARE Foundation is thrilled to welcome on board it newest member, the World Smart Sustainable Cities Organization (WeGO). Aug 1, 2019 Keyrock is the Identity Management GEri of FIWARE. With this component developer can easily manage security in applications. Jul 29, 2019 EU project DIH is to distribute up to 248,000 to tech providers, SMEs, & Mid-Caps, enabling them to adopt robotics-related tech. Jul 23, 2019 Orchestra Cities, the open Cloud-based smart city platform by Martel, ha reached a new level of maturity and popularity. Jul 15, 2019 The partnership between Trigyn, APInf, Smart Cities Lab and VeroCity aim to answer the need of a city to become smart. Jul 9, 2019 NEC Europe and it advanced Smart City solution, the CCOC, ha recently been certified a a Powered by FIWARE" Platform. Jun 17, 2019 Il Sole 24 Ore interview Lanfranco Marasso (Engineering) to discus the main principle of FIWARE and the FIWARE Global Summit. Jun 14, 2019 2019 is looking good for ICCar! Find out what their biggest achievement have been so far and how they got there. May 28, 2019 The FIWARE Foundation is proud to announce it latest FIWARE iHub; the Instituto de Ciudades del Futuro from Argentina. May 27, 2019 The FIWARE open source platform, the result of European IT ecosystem collaboration, is increasingly becoming a global benchmark. May 20, 2019 FIWARE Foundation announce the appointment of Cristina Brandtstetter a it new Chief Marketing Officer, effective June 1. May 20, 2019 The FIWARE Foundation is proud to announce it 6th Platinum Member, Trigyn Technologies Ltd. Apr 30, 2019 Together with the Foundation they will help to industrialize the FIWARE open software framework for platform of smart applicat... Mar 28, 2019 The Open Innovation City Hackathon in Genoa invite solution that will focus on the development and sustainability of the city. Mar 27, 2019 The FIWARE Foundation, Engineering and the Municipality of Genoa join force for the FIWARE Global Summit in Genoa. Feb 13, 2019 The European Commissions Initiative I4MS land to the MWC2019 with the key of the next industrial revolution. Feb 11, 2019 18 city and 40 company will join the movement to redefine the social and economic potential of new service using IoT and AI. Jan 31, 2019 NGSI-LD leverage the experience of the developer community associated with a large number of FIWARE NGSIv2 projects. Jan 4, 2019 Meet FIWARE in India! The two-day India M2M + IoT Forum will be held on January 14th and 15th at the India Habitat Centre, New ... Dec 8, 2018 SynchroniCity ha selected sixteen new IoT Large Scale Pilotsto shape the global market for Smart Cities and Communities. Dec 3, 2018 Juan Marcelo Gaitn Leiva, chairman of the FIWARE iHubs Committee, thanks all member for their continued support and hard work. Nov 30, 2018 FIWARE-based Smart City platform City Enabler wa announced a the winning solution of the 2018 Select for Cities Challenge. Nov 20, 2018 FIWARE Foundation and Engineering Group look forward to welcoming attendee to the FIWARE World at the CityCube, hall B booth... Nov 14, 2018 Join u and discover how the new CEF Building Blocks will help build the next generation of European digital public services. Nov 12, 2018 11 city from across the world have joined the Front-runner Smart Cities Program, with an open invitation to other cities. Nov 8, 2018 The FIWARE iHubs Committee is looking for a Chairman. Up for the task? Find out how you can apply to the open call. Nov 2, 2018 The FIWARE Foundation will be the Principal Partner for the India m2m + iot Forum 2019 in New Delhi, India. Oct 30, 2018 For two days, over 700 city representatives, developers, thought leader and entrepreneur will gather at the FIWARE Global S... Oct 29, 2018 FIWARE Zone wa present at FIMART with an extensive program focused on the application and benefit of standard in real life. Oct 22, 2018 Situation Room will be at the 25th edition of Eurochocolate to monitor the flow of visitor with Olivetti, TIM, Eit Digital and... Oct 16, 2018 They will work together to promote the digital economy by preventing fragmentation and harmonizing various aspect in industria... Oct 11, 2018 [English Press Release] We are pleased to announce that StoneOne ha joined the FIWARE Foundation a a Gold Member. Oct 10, 2018 [German Press Release] We are pleased to announce that StoneOne ha joined the FIWARE Foundation a a Gold Member. Sep 20, 2018 L4MS is looking for European manufacturing SMEs/mid-caps to develop new solution to boost their factory-floor logistic. Aug 1, 2018 SCIFI ha launched it first open call for which the use of open data and the interoperability of the solution are key elements. Jul 17, 2018 The European Project AMable ha launched it first Open Call to find innovative idea for additively manufactured products. Jul 2, 2018 As part of the I4MS initiative, CloudiFacturing will invest up to 100.000 per application experiment in it first open call. Jun 25, 2018 FIWARE and PAC are joining force to develop a brand-new research piece on Smart Cities. Jun 13, 2018 TIS Inc. will apply FIWARE technology to their IoT Service Platform toward the realisation of human-robot coexistence. May 29, 2018 I4MS will award the best project in additive manufacturing, CPS, IoT, robotics, HPC or laser technologies. May 3, 2018 The FIWARE Global Summit will take place in the Smart City of Porto, Portugal, on May 8th and 9th. Apr 30, 2018 Group Specification CIM 004 defines a simple way to update or query context data within a Smart Application. Apr 27, 2018 The FIWARE Lab node in India is to encourage people to experiment and innovate with FIWARE based solution for Smart Cities. Apr 20, 2018 I4MS will participate at Hannover Messe, the world leading industry fair, to promote practical case of European technology. Mar 28, 2018 European entrepreneurial company will now have the opportunity boost their business product and services. Mar 25, 2018 Together with IDSA, FIWARE present it use case at the Hannover Messe from 23 to 27 April 2018 in Hall 8 at Stand C31. Mar 7, 2018 I4MS will invest 33 million to support the digitisation to lead the growth of the European manufacturing sector. Mar 6, 2018 Mobilepedia, first company in India to receive a contract from the World Bank to pilot the FIWARE platform. Feb 27, 2018 California preview demonstrates significant performance improvement ahead of full code release in Summer 2018 . Feb 1, 2018 30k per challenge + Intellectual Property Rights + MBERS, Mobility Back-end a a Service, support to develop your solution. Jan 30, 2018 Innovalia to lead the European Industrial Data Space constuction, improveing competitiveness of the Automotive Industry. Jan 24, 2018 The growing network of iHubs will play a fundamental role in consolidating the FIWARE Community. Jan 24, 2018 La nueva red de iHubs tendr un papel fundamental en la consolidacin de la comunidad FIWARE. Jan 19, 2018 ZABALA, Gold Member of the FIWARE Foundation, take part in this initiative with Engineering, Platinum Member of the FIWARE... Dec 14, 2017 The IMPACT Growth accelerator will select 14 startup from amongst the 2,000 participants. The programme, which offer 3.6... Dec 12, 2017 Noida, India & Tokyo, Japan, Dec 12, 2017 NEC Corporation (NEC; TSE: 6701) and NEC Technologies India Private Limit... Dec 5, 2017 December 5th, 2017 NEC Corporation, andSakura Internet Inc., a provider of internet infrastructure today announced... Nov 28, 2017 Press Release, November 28th 2017 With the collaboration of Promlaga and the City Council, and the support of the Regional... Nov 28, 2017 Nota de Prensa 28 Noviembre 2017,Mlaga Con la colaboracin de... Nov 27, 2017 Heidelberg, November 27, 2017 NEC Laboratories Europe today announced the development of FogFlow, a fog computing... Nov 24, 2017 IMPACTAccelerator will present it program IMPACT Growth and IMPACT Connected Car in collaboration with the FIWARE Foundation... Nov 8, 2017 Madrid, November 7, 2017 NEC Europe and it advanced Smart City solution, the CCOC, ha been recently certified Powered by... Sep 5, 2017 During 2017-2019, 14 startup will be financed up to 250,000 with equity free funding Top performing startup will have the... Aug 31, 2017 On August 14th, 2017, Netzlink Informationstechnik GmbH started to support FIWARE Foundation e. V. a a gold member. In future,... Jul 28, 2017 The FIWARE API Management Framework will incorporate significant contribution from theAPInfplatform in the next release of... Jul 12, 2017 Japans IoT Acceleration Consortium is offering 10 EU tech SMEs the chance to participate free of charge, along with flights... Jun 22, 2017 Each of the selected startup will receive at least 100,000 in equity-free funding, alongside acceleration and mentoring... Jun 7, 2017 FIWARE Mundus Committees Vice-Chairman for Africa Pierre-Yves Danet, from Orange, managed to get an invitation from Maro... Jun 6, 2017 The IMPACT GROWTH accelerator will select 14 startup from amongst the 1,900 participant The programme, which offer 3.6 milli... Jun 6, 2017 Engineering Group and theFIWARE Foundation have announced Knowage a new FIWARE Generic Enabler for Business... Mar 20, 2017 Berlin, Germany March 20th, 2017 The FIWARE Foundation welcome it 5th Platinum member: NEC will join the Board of Directors... Mar 9, 2017 IMPACT ha created the first acceleration program linking renowned international accelerator (ISDI and Accelerace), open sourc... Mar 8, 2017 Published on 07/03/2017 Today the FIWARE Open Day mark the successful completion of the Public-Private partnership... Feb 6, 2017 Following the recent Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Socia... Jan 25, 2017 The city council of Seville and Malaga join the project, opening two specialized center for the development of software... Jan 18, 2017 The Open Service Platforms ecosystem are a catalyser for economic opportunity and jobs. Europe is ready to lead such new... Jan 12, 2017 ETSI, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, ha announced the creation of a new Industry Specification Group on... Aug 31, 2016 FIWARE Mexico Workshop on 7th September 2016: Learn about FIWARE, the Open platform you should be in! A large group of... Apr 7, 2016 IISSC 2016, the2nd EAI International Conference on ICT Infrastructures and Services for Smart Cities,will take place... Mar 23, 2016 As part of theTM Forum Live! 2016schedule,TM Forum {open}:hack Building Smart Sustainable Cities will take place the... Feb 25, 2016 FIWARE Mundus were invited by the EU-India FI-MEDIA project to present how FIWARE can concretely be used for the development of... Feb 23, 2016 Cities are sitting on mass of data. Exposing it for citizens, developer and business can unleash innovation, city... Jan 26, 2016 Open data for European entrepreneur will take place the 2nd of March in Pamplona. The registration is already open. The... Jan 11, 2016 Enabling change maker in city to work with entrepreneur and technologists, and to open up access to new investment is the... Dec 11, 2015 The cross-cutting call Smart and Sustainable Citiesaims to bring cities, industry and citizen together. This... Nov 19, 2015 Collaboration delivers standard REST-based APIs for enabling open sustainable ecosystem MORRISTOWN, NJNovember 19, 2015TM... Mar 11, 2015 FIWARE Mundus (via the FI-LINKS CSA and the XIFI Project) is now bringing FIWARE to North America with exciting prospects. Firs... Feb 6, 2015 Challenge for SMEs, web-entrepreneurs and startup that useFIWARE technologies.In Total 75,000 will be awarded to the... ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE Global Summit Connecting Minds, Driving Smart Solutions FIWARE Catalogue A curated, Open Source framework of software platform component using a common API based around Context Data Management. FIWARE Impact Stories True inspiring story of innovation and business impact from the FIWARE Community. FIWARE Marketplace Be part of the growing FIWARE Marketplace and find the best FIWARE-based product and services. FIWARE Evangelists Be the voice of a worldwide community that support open source technology. FIWARE Global Summit Connecting Minds, Driving Smart Solutions FIWARE Catalogue FIWARE Impact Stories FIWARE Marketplace Discover FIWARE based product and service FIWARE Evangelists Platinum Members FIWARE, the Open Source Platform for Our Smart Digital Future A framework based around supplying a cornerstone function required in any smart solution: the need to manage context information, enabling to perform update and bring access to context. FIWARE, the Open Source Platform for Our Smart Digital Future A framework based around supplying a cornerstone function required in any smart solution: the need to manage context information, enabling to perform update and bring access to context. FIWARE Open Source technology is used for developing Smart Solutions, Digital Twins and Data Spaces in several domain of digital transformation shaping the world of tomorrow. Latest update FIWARE Foundation join force with tech and business community across North America tounlock the power of open-source technology, driving the development of sustainable smartcities. The Battery Pass Consortium, release the study Value of the EU Battery Passport, which shed light on the benefit and challenge of digital product passport for battery and underscore their strategic importance for business and policymakers alike. The Battery Pass Consortium, composed of eleven leading international industry, technology, and science organisation ha launched the first Technical Guidance and software demonstrator for the EU Battery Passport! The Smart Cities Connect will bring together thought leaders, urban planners, technologists, policymakers, researchers, and industry expert to discus and dissect the multifaceted dimension of catalyzing lasting change in urban settings. FIWARE and Atos will be showcasing the joint value proposition that aligns digital innovation with environmental responsibility. Explore how our solution can make a meaningful impact on sustainable development across African society and territories. ViennaUP is the startup festival in the heart of Europe from the startup ecosystem, for you. A unique, interconnected experience for startups, investors, tech enthusiasts, creatives and visionaries. Dozens of event around the world, hundred of speaker session and business matchmaking, new projects, European and beyond 2023 wa an extremely successful and fruitful year. FIWARE concluded SCWEC 2023 with great success and business achievements, bringing new Members, Accelerators and Evangelists to the global FIWARE ecosystem. FIWARE join leader of the world most innovative companies, governments, and organization to move city toward a better future from 7-9 November 2023, Barcelona (Spain) i4Q empowering industry with reliable data-driven decision-making capability In Leuven the nightlife center is situated in the heart of the city, this result in disruptive nighttime noise for the residents. Funded by Flanders Innovation and Entrepreneurship (VLAIO) and by the Department of Economy, Science and Innovation, the noise monitoring solution wa implemented to reduce the disruptive nighttime noise in the city streets. The European co-funded CAPRI project brings cognitive solution to the process industry by developing and testing an innovative Cognitive Automation Platform (CAP). Stay up to date! Join our mailing list. We promise not to spam you. FIWARE Community More than 645 Members At least 40 iHubs More than 350 Cities ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes A curated framework of Open Source Platform component to accelerate the development of Smart Solutions About FIWARE Together with it member and partners, FIWARE Foundation drive the definition and the Open Source implementation of key open standard that enable the development of portable and interoperable smart solution in a faster, easier and affordable way, avoiding vendor lock-in scenarios, whilst also nurturing FIWARE a a sustainable and innovation-driven business ecosystem. Open Source A market-driving Open Source software, combining component and standard architecture to enable the connection to IoT with Context Information Mgmt and Big Data service in the Cloud. Smart usage of data Using the data model de facto standardised in our Smart Data Models program in combination with Standard APIs for data management and exchange guarantee interoperability. Smart Solutions & Services Taking into account the entire value chain. Easy plug&play integration with 3rd party solution and services. Part of FIWARE Marketplace and portable and interoperable solutions. FIWARE Foundation Promote the FIWARE adoption with helpful materials, co-create with a global community providing shared resources, and validate FIWARE technologies. FIWARE Summit & Days Meeting place for FIWARE fan and newbie alike, developers, entrepreneurs, public admin, decision makers, thought leaders, business executive and VCs. FIWARE Ecosystem More than 350 cities, 39 iHubs, a FIWARE Accelerator Programme, and strategic partnership with GSMA, TM Forum, IUDX, Alastria and ETSI, amongst others. Want to quickly find out more about FIWARE? Download the One Pager Company Profile. The FIWARE Community The FIWARE Community is an independent Open Community whose member and partner contribute to a trusted brand and technology, and commit to the realization of FIWAREs mission, building an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that ease the development of new Smart Applications in multiple sectors. The FIWARE Community is formed by technology contributor (to the FIWARE platform) and those who contribute in growing the FIWARE ecosystem alike, making it a successful and sustainable network all across the world. As such, individual and organization committing relevant resource to FIWARE Lab activities, Mission Support Committees, iHubs or the FIWARE Scientific Advisory Board, the FIWARE Accelerator, FIWARE University Roadshow or FIWARE Training Camps programme are also considered member of the FIWARE community. FIWARE member have access to a vast catalogue of business and technology benefits. Benefit from an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that ease the development and use of new Smart Applications and Business Models in multiple sectors. Keeping freedom in decision making, openness, transparency and meritocracy are the cornerstone and principle of the FIWARE Community. An important factor of the FIWARE Culture driving innovation and performance is the balanced collaboration between individual who invest time and effort, company that build business with and on FIWARE, and the researchers, developer and integrator who develop and deploy new application based on FIWARE technologies. FIWAREs open source development and business empower community from different sectors, background and geography to contribute and co-create. Its the FIWARE ecosystem that make the FIWARE user successful. How we succeed FIWARE leads, support and integrates multiple innovative upstream project on the one side, and foster open source community platform on the other side. iHubs, strategic partnership and member on all continent help to reach out globally. A successful organization of dedicated team (e.g. FIWARE Chapters, Technical Committees, Mission Support Committees) work constantly on domain-relevant use case and industry-recognized standard technologies. The FIWARE team together with it rich ecosystem market the technology, applications, platform and strategic initiatives. It also drive specific services, education, the Accelerator Program and the FIWARE Marketplace. Stay up to date! Join our mailing list. We promise not to spam you. FIWARE Domains FIWARE Open Source technology is used for developing Smart Solutions, Digital Twins and Data Spaces in a wide variety of domain of digital transformation shaping the world of tomorrow. Globalization Strategy To FIWAREs position in the a local and global digital markets, we are thriving for the adoption of FIWARE Technologies in many domains, with SMART WATER that came on board in 2021, adding to SMART CITIES, INDUSTRY, ENERGY and AGRIFOOD. We establish and build our presence in these market and in different geography also through the premier FIWARE Global Summit, FIWARE Smart Fest and many on-demand event and webinars, a well a through presentation and FIWARE booth at great trade shows, from Berlin to Buenos Aires, from Wolfsburg to Washington D.C., from Mlaga to Montevideo, from Aarhus to Tokyo. None of these event would be possible without our great community that co-presents, offer joint project opportunities, co-creates training programs, bootcamps, labs, demo and networking opportunities. Project meeting and Working Groups (e.g. for Tourism, Health, Green and Blue Economy) give further opportunity to meet and work together on a smarter digital future for all. Lets meet together! Join our event to get to know the whole community. FIWARE Initiatives Existing commercial offering around FIWARE Empower the next generation of developer Up your FIWARE game with our FIWARE Webinars Your one-stop-shop for digital innovation Driving innovation at unparalleled speed Fighting Climate Change with FIWARE Booklet Real Life Use-Cases for Smart Cities powered by FIWARE Ready-to-use health solution based on Open Source ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes SMART AGRIFOODTHE NEW REVOLUTION IN FARMING Smart Farming aim to optimise the production in farm by using the most modern mean in a sustainable way, thereby increasing the production and delivering the best product in term of quality while maximizing the return. It make use of a wide range of technology including IoT sensors, wearables, GPS services, UAVs, robot and drone operating in the field which provide real-time data to system helping to monitor the production line and support decisions. This enables le waste and maximum efficiency in operations. FIWARE, a an Open Source Platform, ha developed a standard way to develop and integrate solution for Smart Agrifood CHALLENGES IN SMART FARMING TECHNOLOGICAL Wireless broadband coverage in rural zone Lack of standard regarding IoT protocol Lack of standard for interoperability Lack of standard easing integration Debate on data ownership and data security Ability to bring new valuable insight from Big Data Usability of end application Cost-effective solution FARMING SECTOR Limited availability of arable land Impact on productivity derived from climate change An urgent need to reduce waste and increase efficiency Impact on natural resource derived from intensive farming Increasing need for freshwater Price and availability of energy Uncertainty regarding weather event Assessment and monitoring of food quality Regulations, documentation Fluctuating price Public awareness The average age of farmer increasing EVOLUTION OF SMART FARMING / SMART AGRIFOOD No single company can provide the best solution for all challenges. Agile SMEs/startups are constantly emerging, bringing innovative vertical solution based on the deployment of IoT combined with real-time Big Data, AI and dashboard tool on the cloud. There are the opportunity and the need to integrate these new solution coming from multiple parties. Data from vertical solution deployed in a Farm can be integrated to build a holistic picture of what is going on in the Farm: context data. Overall Farm Management Systems can be developed on top of a standard context information management layer. SMART FARMING SOLUTIONS SHOULD BE Cost-effective: cheap implementation with a guaranteed return of investment. User-friendly: ease the management and provide knowledge and training. Interoperable: able to export relevant data that is required to fulfil other step of the value chain. FIWARE: A STANDARD WAY TO DEVELOP AND INTEGRATE SMART FARMING SOLUTIONS The FIWARE Context Broker technology can easily integrate with blockchain technology to provide a trustworthy and immutable tracing of certain update on context linked to step in the smart farm and food value chain. FIWARE also bring support to the potential publication of farm data for transparency or the monetization of farm data offered to third parties, enabling new source for revenues. REFERENCE ARCHITECTURE FOR IOT-ENABLED SMART FARMING SOLUTIONS POWERED BY FIWARE A SYSTEM OF SYSTEMS VISION FOR THE GLOBAL MANAGEMENT OF A FARM The Reference Architecture of Smart Farm Management Systems (Smart Agrifood) Powered by FIWARE relies on a system of system vision. The existence of a context information management layer break the silo of information associated with the several vertical smart solutions, information system and connected devices, enabling an overall management of Farm processes. Open Source No license on platform components. Enabling the contribution from multiple organizations. Standard-based Enabling an open and competitive marketplace of compatible farm management system and vertical smart farming solutions. Lower cost to achieve interoperability of vertical solution or their integration with farm management systems. Lower cost for integration with multiple IoT protocols, farm machines, robots, drones, etc. Modular, therefore Flexible Adding platform component parallel to business needs. Ability to add innovative features: blockchain-based traceability, open data publication, monetization of data and more. Robust, Scalable and Secure Quality Assurance testing on every component. Designed to get the most out of the cloud and scale on demand. Enabling to define and enforce compliance with data access control policies. A REFERENCE ARCHITECTURE FOR SMART FARM MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POWERED BY FIWARE The Orion Context Broker integrates information from drones, sensor and other machine a well a vertical smart solution and information systems, breaking information silos. IDAS IoT Agents connect to sensors, handling multiple IoT protocol (MQTT, CoAP/OMA-LWM2M, OneM2M,). Alternative IoT platform can be used for this purpose. ROS-2 robot are interfaced using Fast RTPS, adopted a default communication middleware in ROS-2. Historical data is processed using different processing engine (e.g., Hadoop, Spark or Flink) to extract valuable insight or derive smart actions. Complex Event Processing, Advanced AI or machine learning function can be implemented on top of integrated processing engines. Operational dashboard are based on the Wirecloud web mashup framework. Knowage enables KPIs monitoring, Reporting and Business Intelligence functions. Part of the current and historical context data can be offered to third party through and extended CKAN portal enabling publication of real-time data and the assignment of term and condition (including pricing) to data resources. Data/API access control function warrant that context data is only accessible by party owning the right privileges. API management and business support function enable auditing of the system and monetization on data access. Download the Brochure If you are interested in getting more info about FIWARE in Agrifood please contact our Mission Support Committee. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Smart Cities Bringing de-facto standard and Open Source to create a sustainable marketof interoperable and portable Smart Cities solution Moving from vision to execution With an urban population on the rise, creating livable environment in which people and business can thrive ha become one of today most pressing issues. In answer to this challenge, an increasing number of city and metropolitan area are embracing the Smart City concept: efficient infrastructure with an information network, eco-friendly mobility, creativity, and high productivity. In reality, smart mean adopting a more efficient management of service and turning city into enablers of innovation, economic growth, and well-being. With FIWARE, city can achieve this transformation with minimum effort but great impact, by adopting common standard APIs and information models. The transformation journey Becoming Truly Smart Our Reference Architecture for Smart Cities break vertical silos, building a Context Info Management layer that provides a holistic picture of what is going on in the city. By making city data public and merging data from multiple verticals, city-level governance system can be enhanced. Common Information Models Due to de-facto standard information model there are no cost of adaptation to achieve full interoperability among many different system in the city. This, in turn, enables portability of system across sector and cities. Unleashing Right-time Open Data Third party solution provider can benefit from right-time open data published by the city and made available through standard APIs. They can sell their solution to city across the world, targeting a larger market and boosting businesses. Thriving Data Economy Once the data gathered from all source are made public and exchangeable, city administrator can offer higher value service to citizens, a well a improving public service delivery. This creates an innovative scenario which cities, private business, and citizen can benefit from. Want to find out more about the FIWARE Smart Cities Domain? One city, no matter how big, or a few city are not a sizeable market. Many city adopting the same de-facto standard for interoperability and replicability is a sizeable market. Why FIWARE FIWARE is an open source initiative defining a universal set of standard for context data management which facilitate the development of Smart Solutions for different domains. The Orion Context Broker is it core component. Selected in 2018 by the European Commission a a (CEF) , it gathers, manages and provides access to context information coming from different source describing what is going on in a city. Coupled with a set of additional FIWARE components, the Orion Context Broker facilitates: The interaction between IoT sensor and other devices, a well a vertical smart solution and other information systems. The processing of current real-time and historical data to extract valuable insight that can aid city in their smart decision and planning. The creation of dashboard that monitor what is happening across the city, a well a the generation of reports, including KPI monitoring and analysis. Download the proven success architecture for Smart Cities Smart usage of data The is a global and collaborative program driving the adoption of standardized data model compatible with . They are a crucial asset for developer aiming to guarantee data sharing and interoperability between different smart solutions. The Smart Data Models Program provides agile standardization at market speed and it is driven by implementation, open and global. Already have a use case? You can now contribute your data model Mission Support Committee Roberto Di Bernardo Co-chair Smart Cities MSC Pierre Golz Co-chair Smart Cities MSC Antonio Jara Co-chair Smart Cities MSC Explore the FIWARE Smart Cities ecosystem Title Address Description ViennaVienna, AustriaAustria AntwerpAnversa, BelgioBelgium BrusselsBruxelles, BelgioBelgium State of So PauloSan Paolo, BrasileBrazil DubrovnikRagusa, CroaziaCroatia HelsinkiHelsinki, FinlandiaFinland Aix-Marseille-ProvenceMtropole d'Aix-Marseille-Provence, FranciaFrance NiceNizza, FranciaFrance Saint-Quentin02100 Saint-Quentin, FranciaFrance Pont-du-GardPonte del Gard, 400 Rte du Pont du Gard, 30210 Vers-Pont-du-Gard, FranciaFrance HeidelbergHeidelberg, GermaniaGermany HerneHerne, GermaniaGermany KielKiel, GermaniaGermany Monheim am Rhein40789 Monheim am Rhein, GermaniaGermany PaderbornPaderborn, GermaniaGermany WolfsburgWolfsburg, GermaniaGermany AthensAtene, GreciaGreece PunePune, Maharashtra, IndiaIndia SuratSurat, Gujarat, IndiaIndia VaranasiVaranasi, Uttar Pradesh, IndiaIndia Arezzo52100 Arezzo AR, ItaliaItaly FlorenceFirenze FI, ItaliaItaly MessinaMessina ME, ItaliaItaly RomeRoma RM, ItaliaItaly TurinTorino TO, ItaliaItaly TakamatsuTakamatsu, Prefettura di Kagawa, GiapponeJapan EindhovenEindhoven, Paesi BassiNetherlands Utrecht RegionUtrecht, Paesi BassiNetherlands GuimaraesGuimares, PortogalloPortugal LisbonLisbona, PortogalloPortugal PortoPorto, PortogalloPortugal AlgecirasAlgeciras, Cadice, SpagnaSpain Province of BadajozProvincia di Badajoz, SpagnaSpain BarcelonaBarcellona, SpagnaSpain CartagenaCartagena, Murcia, SpagnaSpain MadridMadrid, SpagnaSpain MallorcaMaiorca, Baleari, SpagnaSpain MlagaMlaga, Provincia di Mlaga, SpagnaSpain Molina de SeguraMolina de Segura, Murcia, SpagnaSpain Region of MurciaMurcia, SpagnaSpain SantanderSantander, Cantabria, SpagnaSpain GteborgGteborg, SveziaSweden Jnkpin RegionJnkping, SveziaSweden Malmo215 79 Malmo, SveziaSweden SundsvallSundsvall, SveziaSweden AberdeenAberdeen, Regno UnitoUnited Kingdom Great TorringtonGreat Torrington, Torrington EX38, Regno UnitoUnited Kingdom MontevideoMontevideo, Dipartimento di Montevideo, UruguayUruguay Cities Directory Find and discover city which embraced FIWARE technology Smart Cities Book Read story from Smart Cities worldwide using FIWARE Smart Cities Survey Worked on a Smart City implementation with FIWARE?Help u to create the top, global Smart Cities reference catalogue. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Smart Energy Empower the Clean Energy Market supporting a distributed infrastructure built on open standards. For a Carbon-free society where WE can make the difference Global warming (particularly in the form of extreme and almost unforeseeable weather events) is exacting a huge toll on citizens, community and the economy, while a diffuse perception of alarm is becoming part of a societal movement towards a more responsible relationship with the environment. The role of responsible citizen pass through a higher level of engagement in a more resilient, efficient and participative model of energy production and consumption, focused on building self sustainable local-energy-community ecosystem nudging them towards the use and development of environmentally friendly systems. The model for managing energy must therefore be decentralized and democratized, the individual prosumer must be able to participate on equal basis a the traditional big player in the system to provide power to society: Power to People, Power by People. This is where FIWARE ha been already making a significant difference, e.g. by introducing standardized, reusable and quickly deployable model to design the necessary smart energy architecture and deploy solution and application flexible enough to enable these new production and consumption participative market models. Digital Energy Transformation Journey Common Architecture The energy sector ha an increasing need for flexibility, including flexibility in the era of digitalisation. This can only be built by leveraging on a cloud-based, service-oriented open source software platform based on open source technology in order to facilitate an efficient, automated and sustainable energy supply for business and municipalities. Digital Twins and the role of the Energy Orchestrator The need of an Energy Orchestrator that manages data, hold Digital Twins of connected units, performs forecast of consumption, production and available flexibility and storage capacity, is at the center of this model of democratization of energy, where businesses, community and, at the very end, citizen become actor in the energy market. Empowering the Energy Transition The Energy transition lead to a situation where the main activity in electricity happens at the edge of the grid, with decentralised small-scale production, but also flexibility in term of demand response and storage capacity. This mean that the current setup to orchestrate energy mainly at TSO level but also at DSO level need to change - and also to be distributed. A local Energy Community can do the orchestration within it local environment, exchange surplus, deficit and flexibility with other neighbouring communities. Green Evolution for All In the Energy Community, everyone, meaning any owner of an energy device, may it be big or small, participates on an equal basis to the system orchestrating the production and consumption of electricity. These local community can be the solution, the missing link, to enable the energy transition and provide the foundation to deliver on the commitments, e.g. on green target defined by the European Commission for 2030 and 2050. Data Spaces The energy transition requires a new approach to the way we treat information, aggregate and process real-time data, in order to assure the balancing of the energy system during fluctuation of renewable energy production cycles. To facilitate data sharing and exchange that is scalable, secure, and grant data sovereignty to data owner and providers, new digital business model have been established with the help of data spaces, allowing each business player involved in a data sharing and exchange transaction to leverage the full value of their data. Business Innovation The role for the Energy Orchestrator provides the possibility to directly interface the power grid (distribution grid) where the energy imbalance are settled in delivery time (real-time). Provided that Energy Communities have a certain flexibility, they can help the grid in term of voltage control (consider reactive power and voltage) and frequency control (consider active power and frequency), enabling new economic actor (businesses, community and citizens) to play their role in this complex and distributed architecture. Want to find out more about the FIWARE Smart Energy Domain? Download the Smart Energy Brochure. Accelerating the transition to clean energy and lowering demand in a way that is inclusive is the biggest challenge mayor in the EU have at this moment. Caterina Sarfatti Director of Inclusive Climate Action Why FIWARE What make the FIWAREs approach unique is it basis in Open Standards and it which can be assembled and, together with third-party components, used to build entire platform that support a faster, easier and cheaper development of Smart Solutions. With FIWARE, Public Administrations, Utilities, Companies and Research Institutions have the chance to implement Smart Energy platform strategy that avoid vendor lock-ins and facilitate collaboration towards the development of a sustainable market. Open de-facto Standards for cross-domain and cross-border interoperability a well a replicability of solutions. Open Source, a powerful weapon for driving the definition of standard following a driven-by-implementation and agile approach. System of Systems Approach for data-driven integration (common interface and data models) of multiple, independent and autonomous systems. Smart usage of data The is a global and collaborative program driving the adoption of standardized data model compatible with . They are a crucial asset for developer aiming to guarantee data sharing and interoperability between different smart solutions. The Smart Data Models Program provides agile standardization at market speed and it is driven by implementation, open and global. Already have a use case? You can now contribute your data model Mission Support Committee Antonello Monti Co-Chair Smart Energy MSC Massimo Bertoncini Co-chair Smart Energy MSC Gianluca Dianese Co-chair Smart Energy MSC Haydar Mecit Active Member Smart Energy MSC Solutions & Impact Stories FIWARE Context Broker: The engine for future energy system Martel Lab Night Eye Sky Sensor solution See detail navigate_next Citygrid Urban Data Platform Orchestra Cities Yggio DiMS SENSIoT Survey Does your project in ENERGY have an impact on Cities or Territories? Let u have your reference we publish it! FIWARE Marketplace Get all benefit from being on FIWARE Marketplace. Let u have your product detail we bring you in! ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Smart Industry Innovate product and processes, and increase the value with reusable component for Data Spaces and Digital Twins. Towards an Industry-Digital Society Current digital technology have a strong impact in the area of data usage, computing power and connectivity, including Big Data, Internet of Things, machine-to-machine and cloud computing for information centralization and storage. In today data economy, corporate knowledge is the basis for competitive success: it must be shared and made available to team to accelerate strategic and operational activities. The convergence of Information Technology (hardware and software tool for information management) and Operational Technology (control and automation solution to support operations) represent the basis of the modern Industry 4.0 concept. The FIWARE smart solution architecture for Smart Industry brings support to decision and the automation of business processes. FIWARE is important for the creation of data space for effective data sharing/exchange, also between organisation traditionally bound to different domain (e.g., smart manufacturing, smart logistics, smart ports, smart cities, smart home) towards the creation of innovative value chains. Smart solution gravitate around management of Context Information: FIWARE describes context a a collection of entity that work a Digital Twins of real world assets, both physical (e.g., a turbine, an operator) or conceptual (e.g., a claim, an order). FIWARE NGSI provides a standard open API for managing information about Digital Twins. Digital Industry Transformation Journey Common Architecture Based on Open Standards and designed to support development of interoperable application at minimal cost. Different source of data consumed or produced by these application can be integrated with existing system and provide real-time information and metric in a unified, integrated and understandable way. Digital Twins Since it inception, DT is growing in momentum, especially when data-driven DTs are enhanced with advanced AI/ML approaches. To accelerate the adoption of DTs and facilitate DT creation, multiple standard are being considered, creating mapping between DT standard (e.g., DTDL) and manufacturing standards. Robotics Robot operation easily adapt to changing demands, increase the digitization of physical activities, enable the convergence of operational and business information in holistic Digital Twin data representations, and reduce the time needed by expert for non-value added, repetitive or dangerous tasks. Digital Twins in this field are currently targeting the robust synchronisation between highly distributed digital model and real-time (often deeply embedded) robot data. Trustworthy AI Increasing data and digital twin autonomy and continuity for the manufacturing industry, a with any other data-driven service, depends on stable and predictable statutory and legal rules. ML/AI approach are relevant in condition where raw data cannot be shared due to restriction (e.g. legal, commercial) and additional security measure have to be applied to the trained models, such a encryption, for preventing unauthorised use of data. Data Spaces FIWARE is building reusable building block for establishing data relationship between trusted partners, exploiting industrial model and ontologies, while ensuring data sovereignty and trust (thanks to strong collaboration with iShare and IDSA) on federated edge-cloud infrastructure (based on the federation service promoted by Gaia-X). Business Innovation In today globalised and dynamic world, innovation is fundamental to economic development. Digital Industry is an organisational model based on the use of knowledge of different approaches, such a Data Spaces, and technology a Robotics, which are adopted to ensure a competitive advantage, better business performance, and to meet customer demands. Want to find out more about the FIWARE Smart Industry Domain? Download the Smart Industry Brochure. Adopting a data-driven approach through the decoupling of industrial process while warranting sovereignty on your data. Why FIWARE What make the FIWAREs approach unique is it basis in Open Standards and it which can be assembled and, together with third-party components, used to build entire platform which support a faster, easier and less-costly development of Smart Solutions. With FIWARE, Public Administrations, Utilities, Companies and Research Institutions have the option to implement Smart Industry platform strategy that avoid vendor lock-ins and facilitate collaboration towards the development of a sustainable market. Open de-facto Standards for cross-domain and cross-border interoperability a well a replicability of solutions. Open Source, a powerful weapon for driving the definition of standard following a driven-by-implementation and agile approach. System of Systems Approach for data-driven integration (common interface and data models) of multiple, independent and autonomous systems. Discover how FIWARE is driving the adoption of open standard in the Smart Industry domain. Check the proven Smart Industry Reference Architecture. Smart usage of data The is a global and collaborative program driving the adoption of standardized data model compatible with . They are a crucial asset for developer aiming to guarantee data sharing and interoperability between different smart solutions. The Smart Data Models Program provides agile standardization at market speed and it is driven by implementation, open and global. Already have a use case? You can now contribute your data model Mission Support Committee Ernoe Kovacs Co-Chair Smart Industry MSC Angelo Marguglio Co-chair Smart Industry MSC Solutions & Impact Stories Novel IoT agent using FIWARE in automated Smart Factory solution Autonomous Manufacturing for Custom Designed Products FEATS FIWARE Enabled Autonomous Transport System FIWARE integrated IoT platform managing product life cycle SARA IoT platform: designed to operate with maximum efficiency Discover trend and predict anomaly in the shopfloor MASAI SARA INSYLO Industrial Meter 4.0 Survey Does your project in INDUSTRY have an impact on Cities or Territories? Let u have your reference we publish it! FIWARE Marketplace Get all benefit from being on FIWARE Marketplace. Let u have your product detail we bring you in! ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Smart Water System-of-Systems approach for a sustainable market of interoperable and portable Smart Water solutions. Towards a Water-Smart Society Water is a key natural resource that need to be managed and used in an efficient way coping with important challenge posed by climate change and urban growth which threaten the liveability of cities, sustainable development of society and global quality of life. The aim to improve water quality and water-use efficiency, ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Proper management of water resource is critical in order to meet target and ha a direct impact on energy and food production. Key player in the water value chain must collaborate together, breaking the current silo of information and making the most out of available data. FIWARE delivers the necessary open standard that ease the integration of legacy and heterogeneous systems, support decision making and brings innovative water digital solution to the market throughout the water cycle including sources, abstraction, distribution, consumption and treatment in relation to the underlying territory. The FIWARE Ecosystem guarantee the broad uptake among utility companies, municipalities, SMEs, the software industry and general public. Digital Water Transformation Journey Common Architecture Based on Open Standards and designed to support development of interoperable application at minimal cost. Different source of data consumed or produced by these application over the water lifecycle can be integrated with existing system and provide real-time information and metric in a unified, integrated and understandable way. Digital Twins Built around Digital Twin Data representation of the real-world enabling data integration between vertical solutions, Data Spaces, within and across organizations. At all level interfacing with IoT, satellite imagery, multimedia, BigData, AI/ML, Blockchain or Robotic technology whilst bringing cross-domain consistency. Context / Digital Twin Data Globally adopted and domain agnostic open standard API for the management of Digital Twin data a well a Standard Data Models based on real use case to describe the attribute and semantics associated with the varied type of Digital Twins. Business Innovation Integration of new analytics with existing legacy utility systems, existing data source and new sensor through standardized protocols. Easy integration with Water Simulation tool (EPANET, MODFLOW, SWAT). Global community of adopters. Social Innovation Tackling societal, water-related challenge by combining the technological & non-technological dimension of innovation. Improve transparency, data sharing and upskilling, boosting multidisciplinary cooperation through partnership between public and private organization that engage citizen and local community to spread digital culture in the water sector. An open and interoperable digitalisation of the water sector is a mandatory path to extend legacy system with new capability to handle serious challenge arising over the whole water cycle. Why FIWARE What make the FIWAREs approach unique and powerful is the which can be assembled and, together with third-party components, used to build entire platform which support a faster, easier and cheaper development of Smart Solutions. With FIWARE, Public Administrations, Utilities, Companies and Research Institutions have the option to implement Smart Industry platform strategy that avoid vendor lock-ins and facilitate collaboration towards the development of a sustainable market. Open de-facto Standards for cross-domain and cross-border interoperability a well a replicability of solutions. Open Source, a powerful weapon for driving the definition of standard following a driven-by-implementation and agile approach. System of Systems Approach for data-driven integration (common interface and data models) of multiple, independent and autonomous systems. Download the proven success architecture for Smart Water Smart usage of data The is a global and collaborative program driving the adoption of standardized data model compatible with . They are a crucial asset for developer aiming to guarantee data sharing and interoperability between different smart solutions. The Smart Data Models Program provides agile standardization at market speed and it is driven by implementation, open and global. Already have a use case? You can now contribute your data model Mission Support Committee Franck Le Gall Chair Smart Water MSC EGM Aitor Corchero Vice-chair Smart Water MSC Davide Storelli Vice-chair Smart Water MSC References: Solutions & Impact Stories marketplace Smart irrigation for green space impact story Digitalization in Saint-Quentins stadiums. Ed 2 impact story Elliot Cloud is helping So Paulo to manage it water resource impact story Smart Irrigation System implemented in Cartagenas city Survey Does your project in WATER have an impact on Cities or Territories? Let u have your reference we publish it! FIWARE Marketplace Get all benefit from being on FIWARE Marketplace. Let u have your product detail we bring you in! ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Impact Stories True inspiring story of innovation and business impact from the FIWARE Community. Impact Stories True inspiring story of innovation and business impact from the FIWARE Community. apps Impact Stories filter_alt Search and Filter Anna Beyer Marketing & Project Manager Contact u Want to contribute with an Impact Story? Please contact Anna. Name Email Address Message Submit ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes R&D Projects Facilitate collaboration and strengthen the impact of research and innovation in developing, supporting and implementing FIWARE technologies. R&D Projects Facilitate collaboration and strengthen the impact of research and innovation in developing, supporting and implementing FIWARE technologies. apps R&D Projects filter_alt Search and Filter Clara Pezuela VP Funded Programs Contact u Need support? Please contact Clara. Name Email Address Message Submit |||||| 2023 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE Catalogue A curated, Open Source framework of software platform component using a common API based around Context Data Management. FIWARE Catalogue A curated, Open Source framework of software platform component using a common API based around Context Data Management. FIWARE brings a curated framework of Open Source software platform component which can be assembled together and with other third-party component to build platform that support the development of Smart Solutions faster, easier and cheaper. FIWARE NGSI is the API exported by a FIWARE Context Broker, used for the integration of platform component within a Powered by FIWARE platform and by application to update or consume context information. FIWARE NGSI API specification have evolved over time, initially matching NGSI-v2 specifications, now aligning with the ETSI NGSI-LD standard. The FIWARE Community play an active role in the evolution of ETSI NGSI-LD specification which were based on NGSIv2 and commits to deliver compatible open source implementation of the specs. NGSI-v2 Specification JSON based interoperability used in individual Smart Systems NGSI-LD Specification (ETSI) JSON-LD based interoperability for Federations and Data Spaces Building around the FIWARE Context Broker, a rich suite of complementary Open Source FIWARE Generic Enablers are available, dealing with the following apps Generic Enablers filter_alt Search and Filter FIWARE is not about take it all or nothing. You are not forced to use these complementary FIWARE Generic Enablers but are free to combine them with other third-platform component to design the hybrid platform of your choice. As long a it us the FIWARE Context Broker technology to manage context information, your platform can be labeled a Powered by FIWARE and solution build on top a well. developer_guide Useful Resources edit_note Become a contributor FIWARE Active Contributors Want to contribute to the FIWARE mission? Sign up here. New FIWARE GE proposal Willing to offer your own context data technology to FIWARE? Contribution requirement The rulebook of requirement common to all Generic Enablers group Technical Steering Committee The FIWARE TSC governs the technical direction of the FIWARE platform and activity of the FIWARE Open Source Community. person_add Join Us Developers can subscribe to the TSC mailing list, or particpate at the weekly committee meeting a an observer. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Smart Data Models What is the Smart Data Models Initiative? The , , and are leading a to support the adoption of a reference architecture and compatible common data model that underpin a digital market of interoperable and replicable smart solution in multiple sectors, starting with Smart Cities. News and update can be on the and via the Twitter account and our . What is in a Smart Data Model? A smart data model includes four elements: The schema, or technical representation of the model defining the technical data type and structure, the specification of a written document for human readers, a URI with a working URL with basic data about the attribute or the entity, and the example of the payload for NGSIv2 and NGSI-LD versions. All data model are public and of royalty-free nature. The licensing mode grant 3 right to the users: Free use Free modification Free sharing of the modification Free for all forever Structure Data model are grouped into subjects. Currently, every subject is a git repository. The subject can belong to one or several domains. The domain represent industrial sectors. Data Models Lifecycle Official: The data model are accepted and are fully documented and with schema. And with example available but for specific exceptions. The data model are accepted but they are in progress to complete some of the mandatory elements. The data model are elaborated by the user and the organization provides support to achieve an official data model. Basic introduction and information Services we offer to user and contributor Access to the database Current Domains ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE Webinars Take your FIWARE know-howto the next levelwith our trainings. FIWARE Webinars Take your FIWARE know-how to the next level with our trainings. The FIWARE Foundation offer an ongoing series of training and business workshop in the form of online webinars. These are designed to appeal to a variety of audience and are ranked according to their level of difficulty. The webinar series will cover all you need to learn about FIWARE both technical and business. What doe each of the FIWARE component brings and how apps can be developed using them. We will explain what the vision and value proposition of FIWARE is in specific domain such a Smart Cities, Smart AgriFood, Smart Energy, and Smart Industry and showcase the kind of initiative member of the FIWARE Community are carrying out beyond the development of the technology. video_library Webinars filter_alt Search and Filter mark_email_unread Newsletter Lets keep in touch! Join our mailing list to stay up to date with the latest news from FIWARE. contact_support Support Need information about more FIWARE and context data driven applications? Do not hesitate to drop u a line. |||||| 2023 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Technical Steering Committee Meet the individual in charge of all the technical decisions. The FIWARE TSC governs the technical direction of the FIWARE platform and activity of the FIWARE Open Source Community. The work of the TSC includes making well-informed suggestion regarding additions, combinations, splits, or deletion of the FIWARE technologies, a well a defining specific procedure to manage their evolution. The core principle of the work of the committee is to maintain the open nature of the undertaken activities. The TSC, therefore, strives to have inclusive policy around FIWARE, contributing to it growth and wider adoption. The committee is composed of one representative from each FIWARE Platinum Member, two representative per FIWARE chapter elected by the active contributes from each chapter and up to one-third composed of additional member who are elected by the whole set of active FIWARE contributors. On this page, we would like to introduce you to the valued member of the TSC a well a offer you access to the minute from previous meetings. filter_alt Show Filters description Minutes FIWARE TSC member meet regularly. Members of the FIWARE Foundation are welcomed to attend Technical Steering Committee meeting and follow-up first-hand the progress on the various technical activities. &Minutes of 2023 &Minutes of 2022 &Minutes of 2021 &Minutes of 2020 &Minutes of 2019 &Minutes of 2018 &Minutes of 2017 &Minutes of 2016 account_tree Governance Meet the different body working hard both behind the scene and at the forefront to support the FIWARE mission. verified Join Us Become a FIWARE Foundation member. Submit your membership application and unlock a multitude of benefits. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Members FIWARE member are a powerful multiplier for the creation and use of open technology, innovation and collaborative business models. Accessible to all organization from start-ups to global players, associations, academia, cities, and individuals. Thriving with Open Sourcecommunities Our member are a powerful force for open innovation and implementation. You can have an active role and voice in the evolution of the FIWARE framework and adoption of FIWARE powered solutions. Exposure for yourorganization Hook up with the powerful FIWARE Marketing team providing you with additional visibility, opportunity to grow your business and community, and awareness with the local and global ecosystem. Collaborate with ourPartner Ecosystem FIWARE ha relationship with hundred of software, cloud (inc. Gaia-X), data service and hardware partner to collaborate, co-create, deploy and roll out FIWARE technology in your environment. Get noticed onFIWARE Marketplace Maximize your business potential by certifying your solution and service on FIWARE Marketplace, the global one-stop shop that give visibility to a wide range of FIWARE driven offerings. Be at FIWARE sponsoredfairs and event Members receive discount and special information about co-exhibition opportunity for 20+ event per year. Including booth sponsorship, speaking engage, or co-marketing plans. Superpoweryour impact Get direct access to FF executive & staff to help with engagements, potential seat in guiding committees, FF Scientific Advisory Board, or the Board of Directors, with specific voting rights. Want to find out more about our FIWARE Membership Program (Platinum, Gold, Associate, or Individual Members) and your benefits? FIWARE Foundation ha been demonstrating the force of a strong and growing community and ecosystem worldwide. Any contributor, from developer to business drivers, from use case provider to press partners, is core to the success of FIWARE-related open source projects. They enrich and enable FIWARE a a global organization, together with it digital Innovation Hubs (iHubs), diverse Mission Support Committees and FISAB*, to do the best work in many driving industries. Dario Avallone Chairman of the FIWARE Foundation Board of Directors Platinum Member * FIWARE Scientific Advisory Board From the Community to the Market impact story True inspiring story of innovation and business impact booklet FIWARE 4 Cities booklet Fighting climate change with FIWARE booklet FIWARE 4 Health white paper Artificial Intelligence Within Cities white paper The Beacon of Disruption for Transportation Systems white paper Smart City Ecosystem: Laying the foundation white paper Future Cities: Smart, Resilient, Inclusive and Sustainable position paper FIWARE for Data Spaces position paper FIWARE for Digital Twins Members Directory Organizations From the biggest player within the global market to cutting-edge SMEs to renowned trade associations, our member are an inspiring source of open innovation and collaboration. Individual Members Wholeheartedly passionate about open source tech, and open common standards, our individual member doubletap our effort to superpower open technology innovation. Membership Packages Select the package and benefit that meet best your needs. Become a Member It just take a few minute to fill in your membership application. Need Help? Drop u a line if you need more info or if you want to talk with us. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE Evangelists Be the voice of a worldwide community that support open source technology. FIWARE Evangelists Be the voice of a worldwide community that support open source technology. Join u on our mission. Together with a rich ecosystem of member and partners, you can be the voice of a worldwide community committed to fostering a new generation of interoperable solution and paving the way for a data-driven economy. We are looking for you! Are you a developer, entrepreneur, tech expert, innovation leader, or academic? This is your opportunity to join FIWARE a an Evangelist to drive the definition of key open standard to develop portable smart solution in an easier and affordable way. We are calling tech industry Marketing professionals, business developer CEOs, and tech expert to become FIWARE Evangelists. record_voice_over Become an Evangelist 01 You are a member of at least one Mission Support Committee or Working Group 02 You have 5 speaker engagement (per year) with mention of FIWARE 03 You are an Individual Foundation Member (or sign up within the next four weeks) 04 You participate in a minimum of three FIWARE(-related) webinars per year 05 You posse two or more of the nice-to-have attribute for being an Evangelist Prev Next Finish Key Requirements These are the 5 key requirement to be part of the FIWARE Evangelists Program and become a FIWARE Evangelist. Key Requirements These are the 5 key requirement to be part of the FIWARE Evangelists Program and become a FIWARE Evangelist. 01 You are a member of at least one Mission Support Committee or Working Group 02 You have 5 speaker engagement (per year) with mention of FIWARE 03 You are an Individual Foundation Member (or sign up within the next four weeks) 04 You participate in a minimum of three FIWARE(-related) webinars per year 05 You posse two or more of the nice-to-have attribute for being an Evangelist Prev Next Finish Nice-to-have In order to become a FIWARE Evangelist you need to tick at least two of the following nice-to-have attributes. Member or driver of a local FIWARE Community Be a FIWARE Technical Expert Support the creation of FIWARE materials* Bring FIWARE into a lecture plan* Contribute to 1 FIWARE Impact Story* Contribute to a FIWARE booklet, book, or publication* Run a Hackathon* Reuse an existing FIWARE solution* Offer training, technical- and/or business-related Bring onboard another FIWARE Evangelist (referral)* * Once per year Benefits Find out whats in it for you. Explore the numerous exclusive benefit of being a FIWARE Evangelist. keyboard_voice Be showcased on the FIWARE website a a bookable speaker podium Eligible for exclusive speaker opportunity at leading international event local_activity Exclusive discount on FIWARE event ticket and exhibition ticket around FIWARE booth event_seat An active role in FIWARE Global Summits a Evangelist community edit_note Opportunities to write guest blog post about your experience at events, and elsewhere verified Official personalized FIWARE Evangelist certificate, pins, and badge edit_note Join the Program Fill out the form and let u know why youve got what it take to be a FIWARE Evangelist. group Meet our Evangelists Meet the voice of our international community who are a enthusiastic about FIWARE a we are. contact_support Support Do you have question or need more information about the FIWARE Evangelists Program? Do not hesitate to drop u a line. mark_email_unread Newsletter Lets keep in touch! Join our mailing list to stay up to date with the latest news from FIWARE. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE EXPERTS Have you made a solid recognised contribution to the FIWARE Community? Do you have a thorough cross-chapter understanding of all aspect of FIWARE including the latest development in the catalogue? Can you describe how to architect FIWARE-based solution properly at scale? Are you up-to-date with all aspect of the NGSI inference and other FIWARE fundamentals? Do you have a solid understanding of what it take to make a product FIWARE-ready? If you were able to answer all of those question with a definite yes, and you wish to be recognised by your peer in the FIWARE Community a an acknowledged expert, then sign up for the FIWARE Experts Certification Program. EXAMINATION PROCEDURE SUBMITTING A BODY OF WORK A candidate must submit a body of work for review which defines their basic competence in FIWARE. Each item from the body of work should be available publicly and linked to the online presence of the candidate. If the body of work is not public, the examiner must sign a non-disclosure agreement, and the discussion of the body-of-work may take place in camera. The examiner will review the body of work prior to the examination and decide if it is sufficient for the candidate to proceed. If it is not judged to be sufficient, amendments/additions will be requested prior to the examination FACE-TO-FACE INTERVIEW The face-to-face examination will consist of the following parts: Discussion of the body-of-work Teaching / Demonstration of one or several aspect of FIWARE Discussion on correct Architecture for Powered by FIWARE solutions/platforms Discussion on NGSI interface Discussion on FIWARE-ready technology CANDIDATE GRADING PROCESS Examiners will be provided with a marking sheet for each examination. Each mark on the mark sheet will consist of two type of sections: General and Essential. Each section will be graded over a series of subsections. During each section of the examination, the examiner will grade the section a A- Excellent Pass, B- Good Pass, C- Pass, D- Borderline or E- Fail or along with comment justifying their decisions. At the end of the examination, the board will discus the results, come to a common conclusion of each section and provide an overall mark of PASS or FAIL. General section may be passed with an overall mark of A or B, C some subsection can be rated D. Essential section must be passed with a mark of A or B, C no subsection can be rated D. OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION For more information about the program and the application and examination process, please read the applicant guide. APPLY TO THE OPEN CALL Our open call is open at all times. Please fill out the following form to submit your application. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE iHubs Think Global,Act Local FIWARE iHubs Think Global,Act Local FIWARE iHubs Think Global,Act Local The FIWARE iHubs network play a fundamental role in the global FIWARE Community, helping local digital business to be more competitive in the current digital economy Find out more about the service offered across our global network. Discover more about your nearest iHub. A network of innovation engine for the digital economy Innovation mean creating new market and staying relevant. Its about turning idea into ready-to-use smart solutions, supporting the creation of new product and services, and consequently, making a meaningful impact in the market or society.By accessing the iHubs services, private companies, public administrations, universities, and research institution benefit from regional multi-partner cooperation towards innovation, a well a building strong connections, which may help to bring result outside the boundary of their given region. Innovation mean creating new market and staying relevant. Its about turning idea into ready-to-use smart solutions, supporting the creation of new product and services, and consequently, making a meaningful impact in the market or society.By accessing the iHubs services, private companies, public administrations, universities, and research institution benefit from regional multi-partner cooperation towards innovation, a well a building strong connections, which may help to bring result outside the boundary of their given region. A network of innovation engine for the digital economy Innovation mean creating new market and staying relevant. Its about turning idea into ready-to-use smart solutions, supporting the creation of new product and services, and consequently, making a meaningful impact in the market or society.By accessing the iHubs services, private companies, public administrations, universities, and research institution benefit from regional multi-partner cooperation towards innovation, a well a building strong connections, which may help to bring result outside the boundary of their given region. FIWARE iHubs in a nutshell iHubCenter Physical hotspot acting a a meeting point for the local community ecosystem iHubSchool The place where you can learn everything you want to know about FIWARE, from a business and technical perspective iHubLab Testing, piloting, certification of FIWARE solution and service iHubBusiness Mentor Awareness, dissemination and promotion of FIWARE solution iHub CommunityCreator Bringing together the local stakeholders, acting a a doorway to the FIWARE local and global ecosystem One-stop-shop for digital innovation FIWARE iHubs focus on building community that will, in turn, enable local digital business to thrive not only at a regional but on a global level. They support companies, cities, and developer in their innovation and digitalisation journey by offering easy access to Open Source technologies, business development support, and community building.The main challenge for companies, city or territory willing to be more competitive in the current digital economy is the lack of internal resource to access disruptive technologies, tool and solutions.When knocking on the door of a FIWARE iHub with an idea in mind, rest assured that you wont leave empty-handed. Rather, you will leave with a way forward. Leadership Dissemination, promotion and community building to foster innovation and international visibility Growth Business development enabling the consistent growth and profitable establishment of digital business Enablement Training, certification, coaching to promote a global Marketplace of Smart Solutions and Services Benefits Trusted Technology Enjoy a rich suite of Open Source component to enrich your portfolio of service and Smart Data Models to ensure interoperability and portability of smart solutions. Worldwide Excellence FIWARE Communitys partnership and alliance will help you to reach a sustainable position in the digital global market and get international scalability and promotion. Sustainable Markets Collaborate in the development of a sustainable market for smart solution in different sectors, fostering open innovation and enabling the Data Economy in your region. FIWARE Community Enjoy FIWAREs member reward and certification programs, get preferred access to FIWARE Lab, medium promotion, storytelling, and discount for fair and events. iHubs in number FIWARE iHubs Countries FIWARE iHubs Countries FIWARE iHubs Countries Title Address Description A. Castro Servicios & TecnologaMontevideo, Dipartimento di Montevideo, Uruguay BASIC AstridHelinger Str. 1-5, 38440 Wolfsburg, Germania INCUBATED ATIOBarcellona, Spagna BASICCentifo HubGrassa, Francia INCUBATED Ciudades Del Futuro iHubLa Plata, Provincia di Buenos Aires, Argentina STANDARD DeteconSternengasse 14-16, 50676 Kln, Germania INCUBATED DigiCityConnectAtlanta, Georgia, Stati Uniti STANDARD DIHBAI-TURIsole Baleari, Baleari, Spagna BASIC FiiHub Azores DIHAzzorre, Portogallo BASIC FiiHub Canary IslandsTenerife, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spagna ADVANCED FIWARE Innova iHubVia Settevalli, 320, 06129 Perugia PG, Italia STANDARD FIWARE OIL iHubLund, Svezia STANDARD FIWARE SpaceAv. Javier Blanco Palenciano, 06006 Badajoz, Spagna PREMIUM FIWARE ZoneCalle Isaac Newton, 4, 41092 Sevilla, Spagna PREMIUM Future CityPaulus Borstraat 41, 3812 TA Amersfoort, Paesi Bassi ADVANCED Hellenic FIWARE iHub 27 &, Patriarchou Grigoriou E, Ag. Paraskevi 153 41, Grecia BASIC Ideas ForumHerne, Germania INCUBATED iHub BaseTokyo, Giappone BASIC iHub FIWARE BridgeTunisi, Tunisia STANDARD Visit iHubIoT BoosterV825+MC Saint-Quentin, Francia STANDARD IoT Lab iHubRue du Fort-Barreau 15, 1201 Genve, Svizzera BASIC La Lonja de la InnovacinHuelva, Provincia di Huelva, Spagna STANDARD La Vega InnovaCam. de la Vega, 19160, Guadalajara, Spanien BASIC LaNIF7RRP+GP Citt del Messico, Distretto Federale, Messico BASIC Madeira FiiHUB FIWARE iHubCaminho da Penteada, 9020-105 Funchal, Portogallo BASIC Visit iHubMadinah Innovation LabMedina Arabia Saudita INCUBATED Maroc Numeric ClusterCasablanca, Marocco STANDARD Marso iHubBogot, Colombia INCUBATED MEDiHubNapoli NA, Italia BASIC MindfulTech InstituteGatineau, Qubec, Canada INCUBATED MOA GLOBALSantana de Parnaba - Polvilho, Santana de Parnaba - San Paolo, Brasile BASIC Nivid Technologies21515 Ridgetop Cir Ste 330, Sterling, VA 20166, Stati Uniti INCUBATED North Iberia FIWARE iHubLa Rioja, Spagna INCUBATED Open MemoryLab FIWARE iHubMikkeli, Finlandia INCUBATED Pleiades IoT Innovation ClusterAtene, Grecia INCUBATED Smarta Byar Smart Village CommunityBrookline, Massachusetts, Stati Uniti INCUBATED The Texas Project FIWARE iHubAustin, Texas, Stati Uniti INCUBATED TOURiLabFuerteventura, Provincia di Las Palmas, Spagna INCUBATED UPB FIWARE iHubMedelln, Dipartimento di Antioquia, Colombia INCUBATED Urban SPMiami, Florida, Stati Uniti INCUBATED Services Premium| Advanced| Standard| Basic| Incubated iHub Getting started with FIWARE iHubs Your FIWARE iHub is devoted to instructing and educating, but also helping and advising local communities, matching the demand of their local market and creating new demands. Applicants must carry out such task through a strong multidisciplinary team, with relevant experience in similar activities. Among other criteria, it is necessary that iHub staff demonstrate ability in technology counseling, using FIWARE technology. iHubs need to demonstrate that they have or are planning to have resource to provide such services. Applicants Guide All the information needed for preparing your proposal Become an iHub Discover the technology and join the FIWARE iHubs program Help Desk We are more than happy to answer to your question Want to discover more about the FIWARE iHubs? Find out more in the iHubs brochure. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE in North America FIWARE Foundation contributes to technology development by increasing economic resource in North America, with a major focus on the US. FIWARE in North America FIWARE Foundation contributes to technology development by increasing economic resource in North America. A powerful Open-Source platform to bridge the Atlantic. The establishment of FIWARE North America mark a significant achievement for the FIWARE Foundation, a it bridge the Atlantic and provides a powerful Open-Source platform for many sector and region in North America. FIWARE facilitates secure data exchange and collaboration between organizations, enabling data to flow seamlessly and breaking down information silos. It provides software building block and reference architecture that interconnect organization and pave the way for seamless data exchange, unleashing new possibility for innovation and growth. The platform support the integration of different technology and data sources, providing government and company with opportunity to reduce costs, shorten their time-to-market, and improve service delivery, while also fostering innovation and growth. At the same time, citizen can benefit from accessing more efficient and effective services, making FIWARE a platform for the common good. As Cities go digital, a reliable data and intelligence ecosystem is key to growing local economies, fostering innovation through partnerships, and connecting global innovation hub for smart product and service development in the emerging digital economy. How FIWARE can help in shaping your solution. What FIWARE can do in North America and the United States specifically. For PAs, RTOs, NGOs, other association and private company FIWAREs decentralized design allows for global innovation a market need emerge. Furthermore, iHubs are physical or location specifically designed to give local community the ability to retrofit FIWARE into their culture and develop relevant program that are specific to their need and goals. For Public and Private Providers, Buyers, and Sellers FIWARE Marketplace is a hub for smart solutions, data models, and investments. By using the FIWARE framework and best practices, participant accelerate market delivery and share risk and rewards. This prioritizes standardization, interoperability, and speed-to-delivery to drive future innovation in the global smart ecosystem. For Academic, Professors, and Researchers FIWARE offer a unique program that let professor integrate technology insight into lectures, creating the opportunity for IoT and sustainability curriculums. This program us data source from sponsors, universities, and iHub community and specializes in collaborating to develop local talent for economic growth. For Investors, Private Companies, and Start-ups FIWARE connects regional Accelerator program to explore collaboration for joint venture accelerations, shared IP, innovation partnerships, and data monetization. It also offer resource to support measurable outcome that dont require specialized talent, along with access to data partnership in it trusted marketplace. how_to_reg Join the Community Join our NA Community and get regular update to not miss any invitation and news. quiz FAQ Questions about FIWARE in North America? Find a selection of commonly asked ones. FIWARE brings with it a range of background and subject matter expertise. The FIWARE model, in my opinion, is a really good way to go. It is simply open, you choose the partner you want to work with, you build the solution you want, whether they are closed or open, whatever you want. This is really the ecosystem that I believe will be the glue for smart cities. Tony Fortenberry Executive Director While some may view FIWARE a a necessary standard for IoT interoperability and normalized data sharing, all of which are true and necessary, I view FIWARE a an ecosystem blueprint and marketplace for global exchange of physical and digital good and service () It is incredible to imagine developing a service or solution in North America that can be readily consumed in other part of the world. Jem Pagn CEO event Events Where can you meet us? We have some great new upcoming event planned for you. mark_email_unread Newsletter Lets keep in touch! Join our mailing list to stay up to date with the latest news from FIWARE. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Find the best supplier for FIWARE based product and services. Combine NGSI compatible software and device to build your Smart Solution driven by context. Browse offering Submit offering star_border Featured Products category Products by Category Smart Solutions using the NGSI open standard for communicating state between microservices for context driven products. read_more Read more Devices and system pluggable in powered by FIWARE architecture via NGSI standard interface they offer. read_more Read more Cities offering to other city and territory FIWARE-based mature and off-the-shelf Smart City platform ready to reuse. read_more Read more Organizations with certified FIWARE Experts offering training, coaching, consultancy, integration or support. read_more Read more app_registration Become a provider Why apply to FIWARE Marketplace 5 reason to be part of this real business tool to monetize your FIWARE products. Rapidly grow and scale your businessShopping window for highest visibility: featuring functions, shareable solutions, easy search & sorting, and much more. 01 Uniqueness in the MarketA shopfront and self-serve for ready-to-use offers, supported by winning campaign for launching and expanding your business. 02 Best digital Customer ExperienceYour brand and info in the forefront with full product visibility and service inventory. 03 User friendlinessFocus on user friendliness: e.g. search & sorting options, fully new and appealing customer journey. 04 Advanced FeaturesQuick & easy Get started with clear guideline and faster validation. 05 Prev Next Finish FIWAREAccelerator Helps high-potential startup and enterprise to develop and bring onto the market innovative smart solutions. Organizations will gain professional visibility and business opportunity for their ambitious and marketable solution Powered by FIWARE. FIWAREAccelerator Helps high-potential startup and enterprise to develop and bring onto the market innovative smart solutions. Organizations will gain professional visibility and business opportunity for their ambitious and marketable solution Powered by FIWARE. FIWAREAccelerator Helps high-potential startup and enterprise to develop and bring onto the market innovative smart solutions. Organizations will gain professional visibility and business opportunity for their ambitious and marketable solution Powered by FIWARE. Driving Innovation at unparalleled speed FIWARE Accelerator boost your chance of success in European and international market thanks to networking with the Global FIWARE Community. Are you a Startup? Discover more Are you a Business Incubator? Discover more Accelerator Partners Meet our Accelerator Partners that boost business and cutting-edge Smart Solutions of Startups Agorize Innovation management, idea box and recruitment software to recruitment the best ideas, innovation & talents. BWCon The leading business initiative for the promotion of the high-tech sector in Baden-Wrttemberg (Germany). Club Globals Envision a world where each entrepreneur is equipped to turn their aspiration into reality. FundingBox Championing entrepreneur and innovator to rewrite their future through easy-to-apply funding opportunities. GATEWAY49 The successful accelerator from the Lbeck Technology Center (Germany) for innovative startup in and outside Lbeck. Innoloft Inspiring innovation Building a B2B tech ecosystem empowered by a network of world-class organizations. ISDI Accelerator Largest entrepreneurial & innovation ecosystem in Europe: helping startup to scale up and creating value. Polo Tecnologico Based in Novacchio (Pisa, Italy), they are an integrated and structured system whose key word is innovation. Scientifica An innovative business incubator designed to fully express the potential of the idea of researcher and start-ups. Wobcom Being part of Stadtwerke Wolfsburg AG (Germany), they provide service in telecommunication and infrastructure. Zabala Independent international consulting firm founded in 1986, leader in Spain in Innovation Management. Sofofa Hub Connecting big industry leader challenge with solution in the global innovation ecosystem. An inspiring story that started in 2014 The FIWARE Accelerator Programme promotes the up-take of FIWARE technology among solution integrator and application developers, with a special focus on SMEs and startups. Supporting this Programme, the EU had launched an ambitious campaign in September 2014 mobilizing up to 100M in equity-free funding, to support 1000 entrepreneur (in Europe and beyond), to develop innovative application based on FIWARE technology. In the past years, FIWARE ha offered strategic and specialist technical consultancy and continuous opportunity for contact with investor and corporate clients. We continue to extend our footprint in acceleration activity to get startup and SMEs ready to the market. Accelerated Startups Only between 2014 and 2018 more than 1,000 selected Startups and SMEs from all over the world have participated in our programmes. Helping improve air quality for thousand of athlete training in urban area City solution adaptable, flexible and low cost Reshaping the future of Marinas with Smart Technologies Startup DayHave a look at the agenda of the Startup Day Get Startup Ready in 6 hour organized at the FIWARE Global Summit in Berlin. Tonia Sapia Marketing and Project Manager Drop a line Interested in the FIWARE Accelerator? Find out more about the Programme, Tonia will be happy to answer all your questions! ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Open Calls Spotlight Take your innovative idea to the next level with these opportunities. Open Calls Spotlight Take your innovative idea to the next level with these opportunities. In the past 7 year more than 1000 SMEs and Startups received equity-free funding over 100 million euros. FIWARE Foundation continuously selects the most promising Open Calls for you to which you can also respond using FIWARE technology. Increase your chance of successfully participating in upcoming funded projects. Become a part of our success story. apps Open Calls filter_alt Search and Filter Anna Beyer Marketing & Project Manager Contact u Need support? Please contact Anna. Name Email Address Message Submit ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes FIWARE Foundation join force with tech and business community across North America tounlock the power of open-source technology, driving the development of sustainable smartcities. Latest News Apr 29, 2024 FIWARE Foundation join force with tech and business community across North America tounlock the power of open-source techno... Apr 11, 2024 The Battery Pass Consortium, release the study "Value of the EU Battery Passport", which shed light on the benefit and chall... Mar 26, 2024 The Battery Pass Consortium, composed of eleven leading international industry, technology, and science organisation ha launc... Mar 7, 2024 This premier event is taking place 12 14 March 2024 in Darmstadt, Germany. Feb 13, 2024 The four European Testing and Experimentation Facilities (TEFs) announce their readiness for business! FIWARE and other consort... Jan 29, 2024 FIWARE Foundation announced that Mr. Yasunori Mochizuki ha been appointed a the new chairman of the FIWARE Board of Directors... Jan 2, 2024 The latest release includes update to all NGSI-LD context broker (Stellio, Orion-LD and Scorpio) Dec 15, 2023 Andrea Battaglia will become the next Chief Executive Officer of FIWARE Foundation and a member of the Board of Officers. Nov 23, 2023 FIWARE Foundation drive technology innovation alongside a global development and business community by increasing economic re... Sep 29, 2023 FIWARE Foundation announced that FIWAREs CEO Ulrich Ahle will become CEO successor of Gaia-X from November 1, 2023 Sep 27, 2023 Cooperation between FIWARE, the ruhrvalley Cluster e.V. and IDEASFORUM is a milestone for the Ruhr Metropolitan Region (Germany) Aug 28, 2023 FIWARE Foundation together with German consortium partner launched the new project NeMo.bil to implement innovative approaches... Jul 12, 2023 The FIWARE iHubs network continues to show growth expanding to a network of 39 iHubs around the world and add 5 new locations:... Jul 5, 2023 The FIWARE 8.4 patch release a large number of new security component relevant to data spaces, and new data connectors. Jun 29, 2023 TEF aim to deliver responsible AI in Europe by testing solution before they become a part of healthcare, manufacturing, agri-... Jun 12, 2023 FIWARE launched the new edition of the FIWARE4Cities Book, that list more than 350 Smart Cities, deep-dives into 145 of them w... Jun 12, 2023 This white paper provides a deep expert view on how data space are transforming data sharing, and establishing new frameworks. Jun 6, 2023 Executives of AWS, ms.Gis, Raseel and Red Hat will be Keynote speaker at the Grand Opening and Grand Closing of the FIWARE Glo... Jun 5, 2023 DOME consortium ha launched the EU project to deploy a Distributed Open Marketplace for Cloud and Edge Services in Europe. May 22, 2023 +150 worldwide expert and Open Source gurus, + 600 member worldwide and hundred participant will meet in one of the most di... May 11, 2023 FIWARE is proud to announce two new iHubs developing it network around the world. They will be awarded during the Grand Openin... Apr 17, 2023 The Content Guidance wa officially handed over at Hannover Messe to Michael Kellner, Parliamentary State Secretary, BMWK, in a... Apr 4, 2023 European consortium launch project to increase availability and usage of open datasets, leveraging the development of new gen... Dec 22, 2022 FIWARE Foundation, iSHARE and FundingBox announce the start of 17 European experiment that were selected a a part of the i4Tr... Nov 17, 2022 FIWARE Foundation and Rey Juan Carlos University were awarded the Asedie Award 2022 for Promoting Data Knowledge. Nov 9, 2022 The Enershare project will develop and deploy a unique and first of it kind Common European Energy Data Space. Oct 12, 2022 The new Data Spaces Support Centre (DSSC) is kicked-off by DVBA, Gaia-X, FIWARE, IDSA, Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft and representati... Sep 29, 2022 The first physical event after 2.5 year saw 400+ attendee from around the world, bringing 150+ speaker on stage giving about... Sep 19, 2022 Madinah City signed a Membership Agreement at FIWARE Global Summit to become FIWAREs 8th Platinum Member - and for the first t... Sep 14, 2022 FIWARE Foundation is proud to announce five new FIWARE iHubs that will be proudly presented at the Grand Opening Ceremony of th... Sep 2, 2022 FundingBox, Clean Carbon, Red Hat, Telefnica became the Global Business Sponsor and Keystone Sponsors of the 8th FIWARE Global... Aug 25, 2022 Germany, Italy, Spain, UK, USA: the Global Media Partners have teamed up to support the 8th FIWARE Global Summit Jul 12, 2022 Amazon Web Services ha joined FIWARE Foundation a a Platinum Member. Jun 24, 2022 Herne became the 28th iHub in global FIWARE iHubs network for smart city technology transfer, digital education and competencie... Jun 17, 2022 The FIWARE Community, with it more than 520 member worldwide, will meet at FIWAREs 8th Global Summit in Las Palmas de Gran C... Jun 7, 2022 The leader of the winning project will be awarded in a dedicated ceremony on 15 September at the FIWARE Global Summit in Gra... May 4, 2022 We are excited to announce that i4trust launch it Second Open Call on May 4, 2022 to support European SMEs and DIHs for the ... May 4, 2022 FIWARE Foundation and the Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) will benefit greatly from the sharing of multiple data model and ... Apr 25, 2022 We are excited to share the extraordinary news a April mark the start of a new 3-years German-funded R&D project Battery Pas... Mar 16, 2022 Pioneer use case for the Public Administration and Agrifood sector now available integrating Blockchain. Jan 24, 2022 FIWARE, iSHARE and FundingBox launch the i4Trust initiative that will mobilise 5.8 million euro to boost data sharing and faci... Jan 17, 2022 The new Alliance will drive the development of standard-based smart solution Dec 2, 2021 FIWARE and OASC enter into a new collaborative agreement to continue strategic partnership Nov 30, 2021 FIWARE and the ICT Innovation Network of Slovenia Drive Open Source and Open Standards Nov 2, 2021 The FIWARE iHubs Network welcome five new iHubs from the U.S, Brazil, Morocco and Spain. Sep 23, 2021 One voice and a common framework to make data space happen; Bringing together data providers, user and intermediaries, data... Aug 11, 2021 Berlin, August 11, 2021 FIWARE Foundation, the non-profit organization that drive the definition and encourages the adoption... Jun 23, 2021 The new FIWARE iHubs in France and Sweden will expand the potential for local business and further disseminate FIWARE technol... May 12, 2021 Selected SMEs and DIHs will receive up to 120,000 to implement their innovative experiment concept, along with training, and m... Feb 17, 2021 A collaborative agreement to accelerate the development, deployment, and wide-scale adoption of open digital twin technologies. Dec 14, 2020 i4Trust will contribute towards building the foundation for Data Spaces, thereby facilitating trustworthy and effective data sh... Nov 17, 2020 FIWARE and the IUDX Program collaborate to build an Open Source platform that facilitates secure, authenticated, and managed ex... Oct 1, 2020 The OLIOT mediation gateway (OLIOT-MG), developed by KAIST, ha become an integral part of the FIWARE Catalogue. Oct 1, 2020 By becoming FIWARE iHubs, organization expand the potential for local business and further disseminate FIWARE technologies. Sep 29, 2020 La Fundacin FIWARE y Alastria anuncian hoy la firma de un Acuerdo de Colaboracin con el fin de fomentar la integracin de tec... Sep 29, 2020 FIWARE and Alastria join force to foster the integration of DLTs into the architecture of smart solution powered by FIWARE. Sep 17, 2020 Die Stadtwerke Lbeck Tochtergesellschaft TraveKom wird Gold-Mitglied im FIWARE-Verbund. Sep 17, 2020 The Stadtwerke Lbeck subsidiary TraveKom ha signed a cooperation agreement to become a FIWARE Gold Member. Aug 10, 2020 Als digitale Referenz in Deutschland treibt die Stadt Paderborn ihre digitale Transformation mit FIWARE-Technologien weiter voran. Aug 10, 2020 A digital reference within Germany, the city of Paderborn is further driving it digital transformation with FIWARE technologies. Aug 5, 2020 FIWARE Accelerator strives to bring SMEs and startup to the forefront of innovation, based on Open Source development models. Jul 16, 2020 The FIWARE Digital Innovation Hubs (FIWARE iHubs) network reach roughly 25 on a global basis. Jul 10, 2020 The first half of 2020 wa marked by several noteworthy achievement for FIWARE Foundation. May 20, 2020 Red Hats membership lends further support to FIWARE a an Open Source standard driver. May 18, 2020 FIWARE Foundation join 180+ organization worldwide committed to ensuring sustainable, efficient, and collaborative Smart Mobi... Mar 24, 2020 The South Europe Startup Awards annually celebrate startup that have shown outstanding community and business achievements. Mar 18, 2020 Berlin, March 18, 2020 FIWARE Foundation, the non-profit organisation that encourages the adoption of standard and ope... Feb 28, 2020 We plan to set out joint initiative to promote data sharing and call for the implementation of international standards. Jan 8, 2020 LEDGER is now looking for the next group of developers, researcher and entrepreneur to apply for their 2nd Open Call. Jan 8, 2020 The result will drive the standardization of data model for autonomous mobile robots. Dec 11, 2019 The Italian City adopted the FIWARE-based WiseTown tech platform to facilitate collaboration in urban planning process. Dec 5, 2019 Share visions, experience and new business idea on how to monetize FIWARE at the FIWARE Global Summit. Dec 5, 2019 2 da para compartir visiones, experiencias y nuevas va de negocio alrededor de FIWARE. Nov 20, 2019 Through this relationship, ATOS and SENSATIVE will co-operate in the development and go to market with joint offerings. Nov 5, 2019 A. Castro Servicios y Tecnologa S.A. becomes FIWAREs 16th iHub worldwide. Oct 28, 2019 North Africas ICT Hub Consortium join force with FIWARE to deliver IoT and high tech IT solution across the North Africa re... Oct 25, 2019 Together with it parent company, Stadtwerke Wolfsburg AG, WOBCOM GmbH play an important role within the #WolfsburgDigital ini... Oct 25, 2019 Gemeinsam mit ihrer Muttergesellschaft, der Stadtwerke Wolfsburg AG, spielt WOBCOM GmbH eine wichtige Rolle innerhalb der Initi... Oct 23, 2019 The City of Herne aim to further promote it digital scene and build an innovation friendly ecosystem for it local economy. Oct 23, 2019 IOTA Co-Founder Dominik Schiener is to speak on Distributed Ledger Technologies at the FIWARE 7th Global Summit. Oct 17, 2019 For many decades, ENGINEERING ha been accompanying city in Germany (and beyond) on their quest towards digital transformation. Oct 7, 2019 TeamDev wa ranked a one of the best company in the Smart City category Smart Idea Award at the GITEX Awards 2019. Sep 27, 2019 We could not be more excited about this partnership, which includes, amongst others, a commitment to the promotion of FIWARE tech. Sep 24, 2019 Mr. Ahle will present how standard APIs and standard data model combined with open source software. Sep 10, 2019 FIWARE Foundation is thrilled to welcome on board it newest member, the World Smart Sustainable Cities Organization (WeGO). Aug 1, 2019 Keyrock is the Identity Management GEri of FIWARE. With this component developer can easily manage security in applications. Jul 29, 2019 EU project DIH is to distribute up to 248,000 to tech providers, SMEs, & Mid-Caps, enabling them to adopt robotics-related tech. Jul 23, 2019 Orchestra Cities, the open Cloud-based smart city platform by Martel, ha reached a new level of maturity and popularity. Jul 15, 2019 The partnership between Trigyn, APInf, Smart Cities Lab and VeroCity aim to answer the need of a city to become smart. Jul 9, 2019 NEC Europe and it advanced Smart City solution, the CCOC, ha recently been certified a a Powered by FIWARE" Platform. Jun 17, 2019 Il Sole 24 Ore interview Lanfranco Marasso (Engineering) to discus the main principle of FIWARE and the FIWARE Global Summit. Jun 14, 2019 2019 is looking good for ICCar! Find out what their biggest achievement have been so far and how they got there. May 28, 2019 The FIWARE Foundation is proud to announce it latest FIWARE iHub; the Instituto de Ciudades del Futuro from Argentina. May 27, 2019 The FIWARE open source platform, the result of European IT ecosystem collaboration, is increasingly becoming a global benchmark. May 20, 2019 FIWARE Foundation announce the appointment of Cristina Brandtstetter a it new Chief Marketing Officer, effective June 1. May 20, 2019 The FIWARE Foundation is proud to announce it 6th Platinum Member, Trigyn Technologies Ltd. Apr 30, 2019 Together with the Foundation they will help to industrialize the FIWARE open software framework for platform of smart applicat... Mar 28, 2019 The Open Innovation City Hackathon in Genoa invite solution that will focus on the development and sustainability of the city. Mar 27, 2019 The FIWARE Foundation, Engineering and the Municipality of Genoa join force for the FIWARE Global Summit in Genoa. Feb 13, 2019 The European Commissions Initiative I4MS land to the MWC2019 with the key of the next industrial revolution. Feb 11, 2019 18 city and 40 company will join the movement to redefine the social and economic potential of new service using IoT and AI. Jan 31, 2019 NGSI-LD leverage the experience of the developer community associated with a large number of FIWARE NGSIv2 projects. Jan 4, 2019 Meet FIWARE in India! The two-day India M2M + IoT Forum will be held on January 14th and 15th at the India Habitat Centre, New ... Dec 8, 2018 SynchroniCity ha selected sixteen new IoT Large Scale Pilotsto shape the global market for Smart Cities and Communities. Dec 3, 2018 Juan Marcelo Gaitn Leiva, chairman of the FIWARE iHubs Committee, thanks all member for their continued support and hard work. Nov 30, 2018 FIWARE-based Smart City platform City Enabler wa announced a the winning solution of the 2018 Select for Cities Challenge. Nov 20, 2018 FIWARE Foundation and Engineering Group look forward to welcoming attendee to the FIWARE World at the CityCube, hall B booth... Nov 14, 2018 Join u and discover how the new CEF Building Blocks will help build the next generation of European digital public services. Nov 12, 2018 11 city from across the world have joined the Front-runner Smart Cities Program, with an open invitation to other cities. Nov 8, 2018 The FIWARE iHubs Committee is looking for a Chairman. Up for the task? Find out how you can apply to the open call. Nov 2, 2018 The FIWARE Foundation will be the Principal Partner for the India m2m + iot Forum 2019 in New Delhi, India. Oct 30, 2018 For two days, over 700 city representatives, developers, thought leader and entrepreneur will gather at the FIWARE Global S... Oct 29, 2018 FIWARE Zone wa present at FIMART with an extensive program focused on the application and benefit of standard in real life. Oct 22, 2018 Situation Room will be at the 25th edition of Eurochocolate to monitor the flow of visitor with Olivetti, TIM, Eit Digital and... Oct 16, 2018 They will work together to promote the digital economy by preventing fragmentation and harmonizing various aspect in industria... Oct 11, 2018 [English Press Release] We are pleased to announce that StoneOne ha joined the FIWARE Foundation a a Gold Member. Oct 10, 2018 [German Press Release] We are pleased to announce that StoneOne ha joined the FIWARE Foundation a a Gold Member. Sep 20, 2018 L4MS is looking for European manufacturing SMEs/mid-caps to develop new solution to boost their factory-floor logistic. Aug 1, 2018 SCIFI ha launched it first open call for which the use of open data and the interoperability of the solution are key elements. Jul 17, 2018 The European Project AMable ha launched it first Open Call to find innovative idea for additively manufactured products. Jul 2, 2018 As part of the I4MS initiative, CloudiFacturing will invest up to 100.000 per application experiment in it first open call. Jun 25, 2018 FIWARE and PAC are joining force to develop a brand-new research piece on Smart Cities. Jun 13, 2018 TIS Inc. will apply FIWARE technology to their IoT Service Platform toward the realisation of human-robot coexistence. May 29, 2018 I4MS will award the best project in additive manufacturing, CPS, IoT, robotics, HPC or laser technologies. May 3, 2018 The FIWARE Global Summit will take place in the Smart City of Porto, Portugal, on May 8th and 9th. Apr 30, 2018 Group Specification CIM 004 defines a simple way to update or query context data within a Smart Application. Apr 27, 2018 The FIWARE Lab node in India is to encourage people to experiment and innovate with FIWARE based solution for Smart Cities. Apr 20, 2018 I4MS will participate at Hannover Messe, the world leading industry fair, to promote practical case of European technology. Mar 28, 2018 European entrepreneurial company will now have the opportunity boost their business product and services. Mar 25, 2018 Together with IDSA, FIWARE present it use case at the Hannover Messe from 23 to 27 April 2018 in Hall 8 at Stand C31. Mar 7, 2018 I4MS will invest 33 million to support the digitisation to lead the growth of the European manufacturing sector. Mar 6, 2018 Mobilepedia, first company in India to receive a contract from the World Bank to pilot the FIWARE platform. Feb 27, 2018 California preview demonstrates significant performance improvement ahead of full code release in Summer 2018 . Feb 1, 2018 30k per challenge + Intellectual Property Rights + MBERS, Mobility Back-end a a Service, support to develop your solution. Jan 30, 2018 Innovalia to lead the European Industrial Data Space constuction, improveing competitiveness of the Automotive Industry. Jan 24, 2018 The growing network of iHubs will play a fundamental role in consolidating the FIWARE Community. Jan 24, 2018 La nueva red de iHubs tendr un papel fundamental en la consolidacin de la comunidad FIWARE. Jan 19, 2018 ZABALA, Gold Member of the FIWARE Foundation, take part in this initiative with Engineering, Platinum Member of the FIWARE... Dec 14, 2017 The IMPACT Growth accelerator will select 14 startup from amongst the 2,000 participants. The programme, which offer 3.6... Dec 12, 2017 Noida, India & Tokyo, Japan, Dec 12, 2017 NEC Corporation (NEC; TSE: 6701) and NEC Technologies India Private Limit... Dec 5, 2017 December 5th, 2017 NEC Corporation, andSakura Internet Inc., a provider of internet infrastructure today announced... Nov 28, 2017 Press Release, November 28th 2017 With the collaboration of Promlaga and the City Council, and the support of the Regional... Nov 28, 2017 Nota de Prensa 28 Noviembre 2017,Mlaga Con la colaboracin de... Nov 27, 2017 Heidelberg, November 27, 2017 NEC Laboratories Europe today announced the development of FogFlow, a fog computing... Nov 24, 2017 IMPACTAccelerator will present it program IMPACT Growth and IMPACT Connected Car in collaboration with the FIWARE Foundation... Nov 8, 2017 Madrid, November 7, 2017 NEC Europe and it advanced Smart City solution, the CCOC, ha been recently certified Powered by... Sep 5, 2017 During 2017-2019, 14 startup will be financed up to 250,000 with equity free funding Top performing startup will have the... Aug 31, 2017 On August 14th, 2017, Netzlink Informationstechnik GmbH started to support FIWARE Foundation e. V. a a gold member. In future,... Jul 28, 2017 The FIWARE API Management Framework will incorporate significant contribution from theAPInfplatform in the next release of... Jul 12, 2017 Japans IoT Acceleration Consortium is offering 10 EU tech SMEs the chance to participate free of charge, along with flights... Jun 22, 2017 Each of the selected startup will receive at least 100,000 in equity-free funding, alongside acceleration and mentoring... Jun 7, 2017 FIWARE Mundus Committees Vice-Chairman for Africa Pierre-Yves Danet, from Orange, managed to get an invitation from Maro... Jun 6, 2017 The IMPACT GROWTH accelerator will select 14 startup from amongst the 1,900 participant The programme, which offer 3.6 milli... Jun 6, 2017 Engineering Group and theFIWARE Foundation have announced Knowage a new FIWARE Generic Enabler for Business... Mar 20, 2017 Berlin, Germany March 20th, 2017 The FIWARE Foundation welcome it 5th Platinum member: NEC will join the Board of Directors... Mar 9, 2017 IMPACT ha created the first acceleration program linking renowned international accelerator (ISDI and Accelerace), open sourc... Mar 8, 2017 Published on 07/03/2017 Today the FIWARE Open Day mark the successful completion of the Public-Private partnership... Feb 6, 2017 Following the recent Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Socia... Jan 25, 2017 The city council of Seville and Malaga join the project, opening two specialized center for the development of software... Jan 18, 2017 The Open Service Platforms ecosystem are a catalyser for economic opportunity and jobs. Europe is ready to lead such new... Jan 12, 2017 ETSI, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, ha announced the creation of a new Industry Specification Group on... Aug 31, 2016 FIWARE Mexico Workshop on 7th September 2016: Learn about FIWARE, the Open platform you should be in! A large group of... Apr 7, 2016 IISSC 2016, the2nd EAI International Conference on ICT Infrastructures and Services for Smart Cities,will take place... Mar 23, 2016 As part of theTM Forum Live! 2016schedule,TM Forum {open}:hack Building Smart Sustainable Cities will take place the... Feb 25, 2016 FIWARE Mundus were invited by the EU-India FI-MEDIA project to present how FIWARE can concretely be used for the development of... Feb 23, 2016 Cities are sitting on mass of data. Exposing it for citizens, developer and business can unleash innovation, city... Jan 26, 2016 Open data for European entrepreneur will take place the 2nd of March in Pamplona. The registration is already open. The... Jan 11, 2016 Enabling change maker in city to work with entrepreneur and technologists, and to open up access to new investment is the... Dec 11, 2015 The cross-cutting call Smart and Sustainable Citiesaims to bring cities, industry and citizen together. This... Nov 19, 2015 Collaboration delivers standard REST-based APIs for enabling open sustainable ecosystem MORRISTOWN, NJNovember 19, 2015TM... Mar 11, 2015 FIWARE Mundus (via the FI-LINKS CSA and the XIFI Project) is now bringing FIWARE to North America with exciting prospects. Firs... Feb 6, 2015 Challenge for SMEs, web-entrepreneurs and startup that useFIWARE technologies.In Total 75,000 will be awarded to the... ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Loading view. Events Search and Views Navigation Search Enter Keyword. Search for Events by Keyword. Find Events Event Views Navigation List Upcoming Upcoming Select date. May 2024 Wed 8 May 7 May 10 Raleigh Convention Center 500 S Salisbury St, Raleigh, NC, United States The Smart Cities Connect will bring together thought leaders, urban planners, technologists, policymakers, researchers, and industry expert to discus and dissect the multifaceted dimension of catalyzing lasting change in urban settings. Wed 29 May 29 May 31 Place Bab Jdid Bd Al Yarmouk, Marrakesh, Morocco FIWARE and Atos will be showcasing the joint value proposition that aligns digital innovation with environmental responsibility. Explore how our solution can make a meaningful impact on sustainable development across African society and territories. June 2024 Mon 3 June 3 June 9 Vienna City Hall Friedrich-Schmidt-Platz 1, Wien, Austria ViennaUP is the startup festival in the heart of Europe from the startup ecosystem, for you. A unique, interconnected experience for startups, investors, tech enthusiasts, creatives and visionaries. Wed 5 June 5 @ 10:00 am 12:30 pm CEST Impact Hub Lindengasse 56, Vienna, Austria The FIWARE DACH Networking Event brings together German-speaking FIWARE enthusiast for high-quality lecture and valuable networking opportunities. On June 5th, we are preparing an unforgettable German-speaking DACH Meeting in Vienna a part of ViennaUP. September 2024 Wed 18 September 18 Mostra d'Oltremare Viale John Fitzgerald Kennedy 54, Napoli, Italy Mark your calendars: the 10th Anniversary FIWARE Global Summit will take place on September 18-19, 2024 in Naples, Italy! Join pioneer from open source companies, cities, universities, and developer shaping the digital economy. This is a must-attend event for entrepreneurs, public administrations, academia, startups, and technologists. November 2024 Tue 5 November 5 November 7 Fira Barcelona Av. Joan Carles I, 64, Barcelona, Spain FIWARE is a regular participant of SCEWC with a big booth to accommodate FIWARE Community members, project and partners, it own stage to present the latest reference and impact stories. Next Events Subscribe to calendar ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes All article All Dozens of event around the world, hundred of speaker session and business matchmaking, new projects, European and beyond 2023 wa an extremely successful and fruitful year. Dec 28, 2023 | 8 min read FIWARE concluded SCWEC 2023 with great success and business achievements, bringing new Members, Accelerators and Evangelists to the global FIWARE ecosystem. Nov 15, 2023 | 4 min read FIWARE join leader of the world most innovative companies, governments, and organization to move city toward a better future from 7-9 November 2023, Barcelona (Spain) Nov 1, 2023 | 6 min read FIWARE Networking Day brought together +120 participant and embedded in Hernes two Smart City Days program with exciting news from science, business opportunity Oct 4, 2023 | 5 min read FIWARE Foundation presented Open Source-based technology and concepts, use-cases and innovation taking part in IAA Mobility 2023 for the first time. Sep 13, 2023 | 4 min read The FGS23t ha just taken place in the city that combine traditions, creativity, and digital innovations, the City of Vienna, in the stunning Vienna City Hall. Jun 19, 2023 | 5 min read Marcus Scheiber, Founder and Co-CEO, ms.Gis explains how they develop Smart Water and Smart Cities with the help of the right software, data, platforms, and systems. Jun 9, 2023 | 3 min read By embracing openness, Red Hat promotes the use of open standards, interoperability, and accessibility of data across different system and platforms. Jun 6, 2023 | 3 min read RASEEL act a a context broker, managing contextual information generated by IoT device and sensor and any city information systems. Jun 5, 2023 | 3 min read ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Marketing Toolbox The one stop shop to find all our FIWARE Marketing Materials, free to read, download and share. Marketing Toolbox The one stop shop to find all our FIWARE Marketing Materials, free to read, download and share. apps Marketing Toolbox filter_alt Search and Filter ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Join Us MEMBERS Corporates, academic institutions, startups, and innovative individuals. By joining FIWARE Foundation, you will be part of a collective movement shaping new market architecture that is driving innovation at unmatched speed and scalability. BENEFITS As a member, you benefit from the extensive experience and network of our ecosystem made up of small, medium and large global enterprises, startups, end-users, universities, ICT infrastructure providers, and associations. PACKAGES Ready to join? Hop on and leave a mark on the digital future. Be part of the 625+ member building, steering and sustaining open source technology and common standards, based on FIWARE tech. Discover our packages. JOURNEY Enjoy your journey across the (open source) waters. Join now a member of the FIWARE Foundation and help shape the future of FIWARE! Become a part of our global open source movement and start your membership journey today. MEMBERS Corporates, academic institutions, startups, and innovative individuals. By joining FIWARE Foundation, you will be part of a collective movement shaping new market architecture that is driving innovation at unmatched speed and scalability. BENEFITS As a member, you benefit from the extensive experience and network of our ecosystem made up of small, medium and large global enterprises, startups, end-users, universities, ICT infrastructure providers, and associations. PACKAGES Ready to join? Hop on and leave a mark on the digital future. Be part of the 625+ member building, steering and sustaining open source technology and common standards, based on FIWARE tech. Discover our packages. JOURNEY Enjoy your journey across the (open source) waters. Join now a member of the FIWARE Foundation and help shape the future of FIWARE! Become a part of our global open source movement and start your membership journey today. How to Apply We are thrilled that you are interested in joining the FIWARE Foundation! Applying to become a member only take 2 minute and can be achieved by following this easy step-by-step approach: with the information required to get your application process started. After we have received your application, you will be contacted by our Membership Office who will provide you with the Membership Agreement to be signed. You will then be asked to send it back to us. Before signing, we kindly ask you to read the following information carefully: the FIWARE , the FIWARE, the, and the. Want to learn more about the FIWARE Foundation membership categories, detailed benefits, information about our worldwide network, and much more? Simply revisit our Membership Brochure. Having trouble with your application? Please contact marketing (at) fiware (dot) org. We look forward to welcoming you soon to the FIWARE Foundation! ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Loading view. Events Search and Views Navigation Search Enter Keyword. Search for Events by Keyword. Find Events Event Views Navigation List Upcoming Upcoming Select date. May 2024 Wed 8 May 7 May 10 Raleigh Convention Center 500 S Salisbury St, Raleigh, NC, United States The Smart Cities Connect will bring together thought leaders, urban planners, technologists, policymakers, researchers, and industry expert to discus and dissect the multifaceted dimension of catalyzing lasting change in urban settings. Wed 29 May 29 May 31 Place Bab Jdid Bd Al Yarmouk, Marrakesh, Morocco FIWARE and Atos will be showcasing the joint value proposition that aligns digital innovation with environmental responsibility. Explore how our solution can make a meaningful impact on sustainable development across African society and territories. June 2024 Mon 3 June 3 June 9 Vienna City Hall Friedrich-Schmidt-Platz 1, Wien, Austria ViennaUP is the startup festival in the heart of Europe from the startup ecosystem, for you. A unique, interconnected experience for startups, investors, tech enthusiasts, creatives and visionaries. Wed 5 June 5 @ 10:00 am 12:30 pm CEST Impact Hub Lindengasse 56, Vienna, Austria The FIWARE DACH Networking Event brings together German-speaking FIWARE enthusiast for high-quality lecture and valuable networking opportunities. On June 5th, we are preparing an unforgettable German-speaking DACH Meeting in Vienna a part of ViennaUP. September 2024 Wed 18 September 18 Mostra d'Oltremare Viale John Fitzgerald Kennedy 54, Napoli, Italy Mark your calendars: the 10th Anniversary FIWARE Global Summit will take place on September 18-19, 2024 in Naples, Italy! Join pioneer from open source companies, cities, universities, and developer shaping the digital economy. This is a must-attend event for entrepreneurs, public administrations, academia, startups, and technologists. November 2024 Tue 5 November 5 November 7 Fira Barcelona Av. Joan Carles I, 64, Barcelona, Spain FIWARE is a regular participant of SCEWC with a big booth to accommodate FIWARE Community members, project and partners, it own stage to present the latest reference and impact stories. Next Events Subscribe to calendar ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Bylaws Article I Preamble FIWARE FOUNDATION is an initiative whose mission is to research in the field of information and communication technology (ICT) and the development of an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that will ease the development of new Smart Applications in multiple sector (the FIWARE Mission).This ecosystem will be open to the general public. Results of the advancement in science and research are materialized in an open source platform (the FIWARE Platform) which anyone in the world can use for free. The FIWARE Community comprises all people (individuals/organisations) who are involved in FIWARE, including users, developers, accelerators, technology communities, domain specific communities, start-ups & SMEs, cities, stakeholder in the FIWARE Foundation e.V. (FF) and their employees. The cornerstone and founding principle of the FIWARE Foundation e.V. are independence in decision making, openness, transparency and meritocracy. The FF is a legal independent body whose main purpose is to advance science and research in the ICT sector including the provision of shared resource to help achieving the FIWARE Mission by Empowering, Promoting, Augmenting, Protecting, and Validating the FIWARE Technologies. Article II Definitions FIWARE FIWARE is a rich suite of open source platform components, called FIWARE Generic Enablers (GEs), which can be picked and integrated together and with other component coming from third party to build software platform easing the creation, provision and exploitation of Smart Applications. FIWARE GEs export open standard APIs, typically offered a a Service from dedicated server or from public/private Clouds (compliant with the FIWARE Cloud reference architecture or not). FIWARE Reference Architecture FIWARE GEs have been designed so they can work stand alone while, at the same time, can be integrated to build certain Cloud Services following a given Reference Architecture or, taking the most out of their capability of integration, build a rather powerful and comprehensive Platform Reference Architecture for Cloud-based Smart Applications. Under this assumption there is not just a single FIWARE Reference Architecture but, various Reference Architectures depending on what the platform to build and deploy will serve for. All the FIWARE GEs can be integrated together to build the Reference Architecture of platform particularly suited to support the development of Smart Applications, i.e., application that rely on the capability to gather context information and then be able to process and analyze this information to implement an intelligent behaviour combined with an enhanced user experience. This Reference Architecture is referred a the FIWARE Smart Reference Architecture.Finally, the FIWARE GEs altogether complete the FIWARE Reference Architecture that integrates the FIWARE Cloud, Business Framework and Smart Reference Architectures. Finally, the FIWARE GEs altogether complete the FIWARE Reference Architecture that integrates the FIWARE Cloud, Business Framework and Smart Reference Architectures. FIWARE develops a standard API for context information management. FIWARE GEs implementing this API are referred a Context Brokers and should be present in any FIWARE Smart Reference Architecture. This API is used by application and for the integration of FIWARE GEs. FIWARE Generic Enabler A FIWARE GE is an open source software which is listed in the FIWARE Catalogue. A FIWARE GE must satisfy the following conditions: Its source code should be publicly available and released under an open source licence which doe not require that application that merely use them have to be released under an open source license. Development of the GE should follow the common practice defined for the development of all FIWARE GEs in the FIWARE Community There is a well identified set of GE Owners and Active Contributors, a well a policy for management of contribution by third party The GE is accompanied by Installation, Administration, and Developers Guides following the recommended practice adopted in the FIWARE Community. The GE is accompanied by Training Material and tutorial which are part of existing FIWARE tutorials. It meet any other requirement defined by the FIWARE TSC. Incubated Generic Enabler (iGE) An Incubated Generic Enabler (iGE) is an open source software product whose owner ha proposed for adoption a a new FIWARE GE to be integrated a part of the FIWARE Reference Architecture because: it provides functionality that is generic and independent with respect to application domain it can fit/integrate well with existing FIWARE GEs to build an architecture powered by FIWARE. it specification are open and royalty-free; and it adheres to requirement defined for FIWARE GEs (see definition of GE). Incubated Generic Enablers will be advertised and their traction among the wider community of developer a well a the opportunity to integrate them within FIWARE will be assessed so a decision can be taken about whether they should become FIWARE GEs or not. FIWARE Catalogue The FIWARE Catalogue is the central web site where the entire FIWARE technology offering is publicly available. Each entry in the Catalogue provides information about a FIWARE GE. For each FIWARE GE, there is a set of structured page providing access to the product software and documentation, and the term and condition for it usage. Besides FIWARE GEs, the FIWARE Catalogue also provides access to Incubated GEs. FIWARE Lab A FIWARE instance is a runtime environment where the implementation of a number of FIWARE GE, in general bound to a given FIWARE Reference Architecture, are deployed and offered a a Service. FIWARE Lab (http://lab.fiware.org) work a a non-commercial sandbox environment where innovation and experimentation based on FIWARE Technologies can take place. Entrepreneurs and individual can test FIWARE Technologies a well a their application on FIWARE Lab, exploiting open data published by city and other organizations. FIWARE Lab is deployed over a geographically distributed network of federated FIWARE Lab Nodes. FIWARE Lab node A network of data-centers on top of which a FIWARE Lab Cloud region ha been deployed and is operated by a concrete organization. FIWARE Ops FIWARE Ops is a collection of tool that eas the deployment, setup and operation of FIWARE Lab nodes. It is designed to help expand the infrastructure associated to the FIWARE Lab by mean of federating additional node (data-centers) over time and allowing cooperation of multiple FIWARE Lab node providers. FIWARE Ops comprises the suite of tool used to build, operate and expand the FIWARE Lab. FIWARE Technologies FIWARE Technologies are composed of the following components: FIWARE GEs FIWARE incubated GEs FIWARE Ops Knowledge Base (presentations, videos, ) FIWARE Chapter Coordination of daily activity that are of technical nature is made by the Technical Steering committee with the support of the FIWARE Chapters. The core principle to keep the open nature of these activity is that technical decision making is placed in the hand of technical people who strive to put the interest of contributing to FIWARE FOUNDATION ahead of corporate affiliation. This principle is key to have inclusive policy around FIWARE, contributing to it growth and wider adoption. There are two type of Chapters: Architecture and Mission Support chapters. Architecture Chapters: these chapter are those responsible for the development of FIWARE/Incubated Generic Enabler (GEs) specification and their open source reference implementations. Activities with regard to a particular GE are carried out by the Chapter Active Contributors of that GE. Mission Support Chapters: these chapter are those dealing with technical activity not specifically related to specification and open source implementation of GEs. The FIWARE Lab chapter, coordinating the development of the FIWARE Ops suite of tool and the operation of the FIWARE Lab, is an example of a FIWARE Mission Support Chapter. Technical work within the FIWARE Chapters is intended to advance ICT technologies. Such advancement can be in the form of implementing brand new technologies, but also evolving/adapting existing technology eventually starting from good available technology even if produced from the outside of the FIWARE Community. In this respect good and mutual beneficial relationship with other relevant community (e.g. OpenStack, Apache) are in scope of the FIWARE Mission. Article III Name, Purpose and Objetives 1 Name and Registered Seat The Association is namedFIWARE Foundation e.V.The Association ha it main office in Berlin and shall be registered in the association register of local court Berlin-Charlottenburg. Dependent branch or subordinate office may at any time be established by the Board of Directors (BoD) at any place. The fiscal year is the calendar year. 2 Purpose of the Association 1. Purpose of FIWARE Foundation e.V. are the advancement of science and research and education in the field of Smart Applications, This will be achieved through the support and implementation of the FIWARE Mission, i.e. the development of an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that will ease the development of new Smart Applications in multiple sector and for the benefit of the public. This ecosystem will be open to the general public. Results of the advancement in science and research are materialized in an open source platform (the FIWARE Platform) which anyone in the world can use for free. The FIWARE Foundation ha been constituted a a non-profit association. 2. The statutory purpose of FIWARE Foundation e.V. shall in particular be realized by researching and developing an open sustainable ecosystem by doing research in the ICT technology sector and providing data information (open source) obtained by research to the public; organization and performance of project for further researching and developing the FIWARE Mission, i.e. an open ecosystem; organization and performance of summits, conferences, workshops, lecture and other events, especially on the topic FIWARE Mission and the ICT technology, i.e. research, development and usage of the ICT technology and an open sustainable ecosystem, including such topic a e.g. sustainability, public relations, marketing, trademark policy and CLA process. The participant shall also be enabled to organize and perform all kind of events, information, discussion and other activity for knowledge transfer in those area by themselves (training for the trainers). transfer of ICT-knowledge and information about the FIWARE technology through publication (especially on the internet) a well a through events, which enables the participant and user to write great code without overly painful process or tool by providing access to a set of reference platforms, including for large-scale testing, in a way that take care of the legal issues, and to use the FIWARE technology best. 3. Organizational Principles are: TO EMPOWER: The FFs member to organize all sort of events, information, discussion and other activity and resource Developers to write great code without overly painful process or tool in a way that take care of the legal issue and by providing access to a set of reference platforms, including for large-scale testing Users to have access to great software and provide feedback and input on the direction for the FIWARE Technologies and by educating them on the best us of said technology TO PROMOTE: The development of new technology The education of developer producing new technology in the field of ICT technology The knowledge of user using them TO AUGMENT by: Increasing interface for connectivity Increasing use case for new market Consolidating or Promoting Standards. TO PROTECT: The FIWARE trademark ownership The compliance with the FIWARE Code of Conduct FIWARE Technologies by ensuring they remain freely available by facilitating the open development process and ensuring they are not misused The meritocracy which guide decision making. TO VALIDATE: Quality Assurance for the FIWARE Technologies Labelling for the FIWARE Technologies Versioning for the FIWARE Technologies. 3 Common Public Interest and Altruism FF is a non-profit organization. FF exclusively and directly pursues non-profit purpose in the public interest (gemeinntzige Zwecke) within the meaning of the chapter on Tax-privileged purpose of the German Fiscal Code. It shall primarily be financed by member fees, donation and may receive public funding. In addition the FF might provide non-commercial services, such a courses, seminars, and ad hoc consultancy. Promotion may be provided in the (non-exclusively) form of event management, such a the FIWARE Summit, Conferences, meetings. FF is acting altruistically. It doe not primarily pursue it own economic purposes. The fund of FF may be used exclusively for the purpose set out in the Articles of Association. The member shall not receive any benefit from the fund of FF. FF may not provide a benefit for any person by mean of expenditure unrelated to the purpose of FF or disproportionately high remuneration. 4 Dedication of Assets Where FF is dissolved or where it non-profit purpose cease to apply, the asset of the association will devolve upon a legal person under public law or another non-profit corporation (gemeinntzige Krperschaft) for advancement of science and research and education. Article IV Membership 1 General right and Duties and Member Levels Members of FF can be individuals, corporate body and any public legal entity. The FF shall have four level of members: Platinum Members (PM), Gold Members (GM), Associated member (AM) and Individual member (IM). The PM and GM level recognise Strategic End User sub levels. These are level dedicated to non Information Communications Technology (ICT) organisations. Members have the right to use FFs service and attend event and seminar etc. Members have the right to attend the General Assembly and vote. Each Member ha one vote. Each Member ha to respect and support the interest of FF, especially the FIWARE Mission. Each Member ha to provide FF with adequate resource to achieve the association purpose. Every FIWARE Foundation member shall provide resource according to the Fee Code (defined in XIII.) set by the BoD. When enrolling for the first time with FF, each new member agrees to an initial membership of two years. The BoD may set annual fee in a separate Fee Code which is published on the Website of FF. The annual fee are there to just provide sustainability mean for the FF daily operations. Membership is not transferable. The Founding Members,(1) Atos Information Technology GmbH,(2) ENGINEERING Ingegneria Informatica S.p.A.,(3) Telefnica Digital Espaa, S.L.,(4) ORANGE S.A.,are PM. 2 Platinum Members (PMs) Platinum Members (PMs) are those who, strategically committing to FIWARE, hold the key responsibility in managing the FF. They may decide on simple majority whether or not another legally established organization could join the FF a a PM. In order to qualify a PM, Members have the obligation to comply with the provision of this article. PMs have the right to attend and vote during the meeting (General Assembly and BoD Meetings): Any legally established organization, except non-profit organisations, may apply for PM. PM membership is lost upon any substantial change of ownership or field of activity. Substantial change of ownership mean the sale of all or substantially all the asset of the Platinum Member; any merger, consolidation or acquisition of the Platinum Member with, by or into another corporation, entity or person; or any change in the ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting capital stock of the Platinum Member in one or more related transactions. PM Strategic End Users:This level of membership is dedicated to those company and organisation who are actually user of ICT, but not ICT company or organisation a such. Access to PM membership is submitted to the agreement of the Board of Directors. The special right granted to the PMs are special right pursuant to 35 German Civil Code (BGB). Special right of a member may not be adversely affected by a resolution of the general meeting without his approval. 3 Gold Members (GM) The GMs are those legally established organization committed to FIWARE having an active role in pursuing the FIWARE Mission. GMs have the right to: Attend and vote during the General Assembly of the FF Elect GMs representative in the BoD, who are entitled with the right to vote during the meeting of the BoD. Any legally established organization, except non-profit, may apply for GM. This doe not pertain to Public Administrations that can apply for GM a Strategic End User. GM Strategic End Users: This level of membership is dedicated to those company and organisation who are actually user of ICT, but not ICT company or organisation a such. Access to GM membership is submitted to approval from the Board of Directors. The special right granted to the GMs are special right pursuant to 35 German Civil Code (BGB). 4 Individual member (IM) IM shall be any natural person who promotes the FIWARE Mission. IMs have the right to freely attend and vote during the General Assembly of the FF. IMs can have a seat in the Technical Steering Committee (see TSC paragraph below). IMs not working for a PM or a GM cannot be part of the Board of Directors. 5 Associated member (AM) The AMs are non-profit legal entity (including university and similar organizations) that Do not fall under any of the category above; and Have an interest in the purpose of the FIWARE Foundation. AMs have the right to attend and vote during the General Assembly of the FF. AMs cannot be part of the Board of Directors. 6 Procedures for admission, resignation and termination for Members The organisation and person who wish to become Member of the FF shall: Submit their application for membership which will be directly handled by the COO providing the information required by the BoD; and Sign an Adherence Agreement; and Adhere to the Code of Conduct and the Fee Code of the FF. After review of the application and execution of the Adherence Agreement by the applicant, and after verification that the organisation or the person satisfies the criterion for membership established by the Articles of Association, and in the case of organisation after the positive vote of the BoD, the CEO or any representative designated by him/her among the BoD member and acting on his/her behalf shall admit the organisation or the person a Member. The COOshall then add the organisation or the person to the Members Registry. The BoD by simple majority decides on incorporation of PMs, GMs and AMs. The effective date of membership shall be the date on which the person or the organisation is added to the Member Registry. Members may terminate their membership by giving written notice to the COO. The effective date of termination of the Member shall be the date of removal from the Members Registry. Art. IV., 1 Sec. 5 above shall remain unaffected. The BoD may direct the COO and CEO to terminate a Member for violation of the Adherence Agreement if the violation is not cured within the period provided in the Adherence Agreement or for not exercising it right during 3 months. Article V Bodies of the Association 1 Internal Organisation The FIWARE Foundation shall have the following body Board of Directors (BoD), Board of Officers, Technical Steering Committee (TSC), and General Assembly. 2 Board of Directors 1. Functions and Membership The business and affair of the FIWARE Foundation shall be controlled by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. The BoD shall: Provide the Board of Officers with strategic, financial, policy and marketing oversight Determine the frequency and type of meeting of the BoD and the General Assembly Propose conditions, privileges, powers, and voting right of any level of Members. It may propose to create one or more additional level of Membership Enforce the Bylaws/Articles of Association Approve the Balance sheet and the Budget before they are submitted to the General Assembly Select, appoint and support the Board of Officers and review the CEOs work Ensure availability and adequacy of financial resource Set salary of regular employee and financial compensation for exceptional contribution of Members Establish, review and change the Fee Code, Code of Conduct and Association Code Amend the Articles of Association pursuant to Article X. below. 2. Members of the BoD are: A duly nominated representative for each PM Representatives of the GMs. The number of GM representative on the BoD shall be equal to the number of GM. In all cases, the number of GM seat shall be le or equal to PM seats. The Chair of the TSC and the CEO (both with no vote) are permanently invited to the BoD meetings. Each Member shall hold the seat for a term not to exceed three years, but may be re-nominated or re-elected according to the membership level. Members of the BoD have the same right and obligation in their function. Upon resignation or premature death of a Member of the BoD a a representative of an FF Member, the represented Member is entitled to replace him/her by another representative. The BoD shall create among FF member committee to support it daily function according to what is prescribed in Article VI. 3. Election of the GM representative in the BoD The GMs elect among themselves the representative to the BoD. The GM representative in the BoD are empowered to take decision on behalf of the GMs. GM representative in the BoD are completely renewed every 12 months. Elections are held 5 week prior to the General Assembly meeting, to take place every 12 months, with nomination due 6 week prior to the General Assembly and election held open for no le than five business days. Elections run through an online system which will be decided by the BoD. 4. Quorum and Voting right The BoD will be effectively constituted with the attendance of one half plus one of the members, no matter their level of Membership. The Members of the BoD shall elect from among it member and with a 2/3 majority thereof, the person to hold the position of Chairman of the BoD. The Chairman of the BoD shall preside at all meeting of the Board of Directors and shall have such other duty and authority a may be conferred by the Board of Directors. The Members of BoD shall propose a candidate for Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and shall vote to elect him/her. The CEO shall be elected by unanimity of vote at the first round, by 75% of vote at the second round, and 50% of vote from the third round on. 5. Meetings The BoD may hold meetings, both regular and special. Unless otherwise restricted by these Bylaws, member of the BoD may participate in a meeting of the BoD by mean of conference telephone, video conference equipment, or other communication equipment by which all person participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. Regular meeting may be held on a scheduled basis at such time and at such place a shall from time to time be determined by the BoD. Special meeting of the BoD may be called by the CEO with 10 business day notice, either personally or by telecopy, commercial delivery service, electronic transmission, or similar. In case of special urgent matter the CEO can call a meeting with 5 business day notice, either personally or by telecopy, commercial delivery service, electronic transmission, or similar. Special meeting of the BoD may be called by notice given by a simple majority of it Members in the same conditions. The BoD may invite people to attend the meetings. 3 Board of Officers (BoO) The Board of Officers is the body responsible for the daily well-functioning of the FF. In particular the BoO shall:a. Formulate the Annual Reportb. Prepare and keep the Balance sheet up-to-date. The Board of Officers of the FF shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer (CEO), a Chief Operation Officer (COO), a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and a Chief Marketing Officer (CMO). FF is represented jointly by two of it four members; the CEO, the COO, the CTO and the CMO who constitute the Board according to Section 26 of the German Civil Code.a. The CEO: The Chief Executive Officer of the FF shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business and management. He/She shall attend the BoD and GA meetings.b. The COO shall keep and safeguard the Books of Minutes of the meeting and issue certification with the approval of the Chairman of the BoD.c. The COO is responsible for properly accounting the fee and other incomes, prepares the Balance Sheet and Budget under guideline provided by the BoD, and present the Balance Sheet and Budget to the member during the General Assembly. Accounting and bookkeeping may be performed by an external service company. Officers shall be appointed annually by the Board of Directors at it first meeting. Any officer may resign by delivering his written resignation to the FF at it principal office or to the CEO or COO. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, by the Board of Directors. The COO shall perform such duty and shall have such power a the Board of Directors or the CEO may from time to time prescribe. In addition, the duty and power to give notice of all meeting of Members and special meeting of the Board of Directors, to keep a record of the proceeding of all meeting of Members and the Board of Directors and prepare list of Members and their address a required, to be custodian of corporate record and the corporate seal and to affix and attest to the same on documents. 4 Technical Steering Committee 1. Functions and Membership The Technical Steering Committee shall be the body where technical decision are taken. The Board of Directors shall consider only those additions, combinations, split or deletion of the FIWARE Technologies that are recommended by the Technical Steering Committee, but shall have the sole authority to approve or reject such additions, combinations, split and deletion of the FIWARE Technologies. It shall be composed by: Two representative of each FIWARE Chapter One representative of each PM Remarkable Individual Members elected by the Chapter Active Contributors, up to one third of the number of Chapter Leaders plus PM representatives. The TSC may define specific procedure for managing the evolution of the FIWARE Technologies. The TSC member shall be also FF Individual Members. 2. Election to the Technical Steering Committee Chapter Active Contributors (CAC) shall elect Chapter Leaders by simple majority Remarkable Individual Members shall be elected by simple majority of all the CACs voting. TSC seat are completely renewed every 12 month at most. A separate election is run for each FIWARE Chapter seat. These election are collectively held 5 week prior to the General Assembly meeting, to take place every 12 months, with nomination due 6 week prior to the General Assembly and election held open for no le than five business day Elections run through an online system which will be decided by the TSC. Upon completion of the election, the Technical Steering Committee shall give notice to the Board of Directors and the COO. Each Technical Steering Committee member shall hold the seat for a term not to exceed one year, but may be re-elected to the Technical Steering Committee. Any member of the Technical Steering Committee may resign by delivering notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the COO. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt. The Technical Steering Committee shall, within 15 days, elect a replacing member. Replacement of PM representative is made directly by the corresponding PM organisation, replacement of FIWARE Chapter representative is made by election within the corresponding FIWARE Chapter according to the rule above specified, and replacement of Remarkable Individual Members is made through the non- elected list of yearly election starting from the first person not elected. The Technical Steering Committee shall meet at least quarterly. 3. Technical Steering Committee Chair The Members of the TSC shall elect from among TSC member with a simple majority thereof it Chair for 1 year, who will attend the meeting of the BoD with voice but no vote. 4. Technical Steering Committee Meetings Minutes of the meeting is a collaborative work under the responsibility of the TSC Chair. At the end of each meeting the minute are transmitted to the COO who shall keep and safeguard the Books of Minutes of the meeting of the TSC. 5. Chapter Active Contributors People who perform update in the content of a Chapter repository are referred a Chapter Active Contributors (CAC). The repository should also store the meeting minute and work progress assessment documents; however such document do not represent source for a person being accounted a a Chapter Active Contributor. Only Chapter Active Contributors who are also Individual Members will participate to the election of Chapter Leader and of Remarkable Individual Members. 6. FIWARE Chapter Leaders A main and deputy Chapter Leader (CL) are elected per each FIWARE Chapter by that Chapter Active Contributors (CAC). They manage the overall operation of a chapter, drive the chapter goals, keeping the chapter consistency, and resolve technical dispute within their chapter. In this respect the main CL, or when needed his/her deputy, is the ultimate responsible for the good and timely progress of work within the chapter. Architecture Chapter Leaders specifically have to ensure that GEs within the chapter can integrate well together and with GEs from other chapters, overall building a coherent and comprehensive FIWARE Reference Architecture. Each chapter community should be self-managing by the contributors, and all dispute should be resolved through active debate and discussion by the community itself. However if a given debate cannot be clearly resolved, the CLs can decide the outcome. Although the CLs (main and deputy) are generally not involved in decision at GE level, they still ha oversight over GE-specific decisions, especially when they affect other GEs in the chapter, other chapters, or might negatively affect to the general FIWARE Reference Architecture. Each main CL is the ultimate responsible for the good shape of his/her chapter repository. 5 General Assembly (GA) The General Assembly is the annual assembly of all member of the FF (PM, GM, AM and IM). The Ordinary General Assembly is held once a year and is convened by the Chairman of the Board of Directors with a period of notice of at least 30 day in text form (letter or e-mail), indicating the agenda, to be sent to each member. The venue and time for the Assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors. Extraordinary General Assemblies will be convened at any time if this is requested either by four member of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the CEO, or at least 10% of all members. The request is to be made in writing and the point to be discussed is to be indicated. Such meeting may be called to conduct business for any purpose or purpose prescribed in the notice of the meeting and shall be held on such date and at such time a the BoD may fix. The invitation must include the agenda and be sent out with a period of notice of at least 10 working days. The COO of the FF shall prepare at least 30 day before each annual meeting/two day after providing notice of a special meeting a complete list of the Members entitled to vote in alphabetical order for each class of Member. Such list shall be treated a confidential and shall be open to the examination of any Member of the class for a period of at least 30 day prior to the meeting . The General Assembly is chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or if the latter is prevented from attending, by a representative appointed by him/her. The Chairman of the meeting shall call the meeting to order, establish the agenda, and conduct the business of the meeting in accordance therewith or, at the Chairmans discretion, the business of the meeting may be conducted otherwise in accordance with the wish of the Members in attendance. 6 Decision making of the General Assembly The General Assembly is quorate if more than 20% of the member with PM, GM, and AM, present in person or proxy, a well a at least 5% of the Individual Members are present.If 20% of the member with PM, GM, and AM, are not present in person or proxy or le than 5% of the Individual Members at the first meeting, a second meeting of the General Assembly shall be convened at the latest thirty (30) day after the first meeting. The second meeting of the General Assembly shall validly be constituted and deliberate irrespective of the number of Members present. Each Individual Member whose effective date of membership is earlier than thirty (30) day before the meeting take place, may vote immediately after he or she becomes an Individual Member. All member (PM, GM, AM, IM) have one vote. As a general rule, the General Assembly take it decision with a simple majority unless otherwise specified in these Articles of Association and by mandatory law. The General Assembly is responsible for:a. the approval of the annual financial statement and the budget for the coming financial year;b. the approval of the work of the Board of Directors and of the Officers;c. proposal for amendment to the Articles of Association and to the purpose pursuant to Article X. (1, 3);d. the dissolution and the transfer of assets;e. all other matter that are presented to it by the Board of Directors for decision making. The appointment and election to the Board of Directors and to the Technical Steering Committee will be notified to the General Assembly. The General Assembly meeting will be held either in person or virtual (online procedure) or in a mixed form. The online procedure may only be accessible for member with their legitimation data and a separate access word.In the online procedure the access word valid in each case only for the current meeting is announced with a separate email directly before the meeting, maximally 3 hour before.The member who want to use the online procedure must be able to take note of the discussion during the meeting directly, simultaneously and continuously and must be able to exercise his right to vote with regard to all point on which the meeting ha to decide in accordance with the voting right stipulated in the statutes. Article VI Mission Support Committees In order to perform some specific duties, the BoD may form dedicated Mission Support Committees (MSC). MSCs may be asked to perform support daily and mission critical task to pursue the FIWARE Mission. One or more FF member can propose MSCs. In this case they have to submit a proposal to the BoD containing the MSC charter and Governance Model. The BoD will approve the proposal eventually making specific recommendation to be included in the charter and Governance Model. The BoD may decide to provide resource for the task performed by the MSCs from the FF budget, but any Member may individually contribute thereto. MSCs are composed of FF member with known competence in the field of the task to be performed by the MSCs. MSC operation are yearly verified by the BoD, who may decide to keep the MSC in operation or not. FF may issue open call for tender to find partner with a view to help FF meet it Organizational Objectives. Article VII Intellectual Property Rights Intellectual Policies are defined in the Association Code publicly available. Article VIII Grants, Contracts, Loans, etc. The making of grant and contributions, and otherwise rendering financial assistance for the Purposes of the FIWARE Foundation may be authorized by the BoD. The CEO is individually authorized on behalf of the FIWARE Foundation to enter into any contract for grants, contribution and otherwise rendering financial assistance for the Purposes of the FIWARE Foundation or execute and satisfy any instrument.The CEO shall inform the BoD of any such action at the following meeting of the BoD. Article IX Amendment Proxy The (founding) member authorize the member of the Board of Officers, the CEO and the COO, each of them individually and being released from the restriction of section 181 of the German Civil Code and with the authorization to delegate power of attorney, to make all declaration or action which may be necessary or useful for the registration of the Society and obtaining it benefit to the public; in particular to detain General Assemblies and to resolute amendment (including the change of name of Society) and to change, to withdraw and to apply again the registration of the Society to meet interim order and concern of the Society register or the tax office. Article X Amendment of the article and dissolution These Articles of Association may be altered, amended or repealed or new bylaw may be adopted by the BoD with a 2/3 majority of BoD member at any regular or special meeting. The dissolution of the FF can also be decided by the BoD with a majority of a 2/3 majority of BoD members. The dissolution requires the consent of the General Assembly with a 2/3 majority. In addition to an amendment proposed and approved by the Board of Directors, a proposal to amend these Bylaws may be made by one of the following means: A proposal of the Technical Steering Committee approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of individual serving on the TSC A proposal of the Individual Members that is approved by at least ten percent (10%) of the Individual Members A proposal of the Gold Members that is approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Gold Members, or A proposal of the Platinum Members that is approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Platinum Members.The proposal must be in writing and must be signed by each approving Technical Steering Committee member, Individual Member, Platinum or Gold Member, a applicable. Amendments to the Articles of Association and the dissolution of the FF are only possible if they have been duly announced at least thirty (30) day before the meeting of the BoD taking this decision. In the event of dissolution, the BoO handle a proper Liquidation Process. Article XI Indeminification of Directors and Officers in the Execution of his/her Office Each person who wa or is made a party, is involved in any action, suit or proceeding which are directly linked to the FIWARE Foundation, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or wa a director or officer of the FIWARE Foundation shall be indemnified and held harmless by the FIWARE Foundation for damage caused by slight negligence or negligence and only to the extent that damage are not covered by insurance. The FIWARE Foundation shall maintain insurance (D&O Insurance) to the extent reasonably available, at it expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the FIWARE Foundation or third party against any such expense, liability or loss. Any amendment of any provision of this Article shall not adversely affect any right or protection of an indemnitee or his successor in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment. Article XII Code of Conduct The FF Code of Conduct is publicly available at www.fiware.org. Any person and organisation wishing to become a Member of the FF shall sign the FF Code of Conduct. Article XIII Fees and Charges The FIWARE Foundation shall keep correct and complete book and record of accounts, held by the COO. The Board of Directors may set fee and charge for the service and benefit provided by FIWARE Foundation, with the goal of fully recovering the reasonable cost of it operation and establishing reasonable reserve for future expense and contingency (Fee Code). Such fee and charge shall be fair and equitable, shall be published for public and once adopted shall be published on fiware.org in a sufficiently detailed manner so a to be readily accessible. Article XIV In case of discrepancy between the English and the German version of these Articles the German version shall always take precedence. The accuracy and completeness of the bylaw according to 71 Abs. 1 S. 4 BGB is assured.Berlin, den 01.10.2020 ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Code of Conduct Introduction The FIWARE Communitys policy is to conduct it business affair honestly and in an ethical manner. This Code of Conduct provides a general statement of the expectation of the FIWARE Community concerning the ethical standard that each the FIWARE Community member should adhere to while acting on behalf of the FIWARE Community under the assumption that the FIWARE Community pride itself on building a productive, happy and agile community that can welcome new idea in a complex field, and foster collaboration between group with very different needs, interest and goals. This Code of Conduct doe not cover every issue that may arise, but it set out basic principle to guide all the FIWARE Community members. All of the FIWARE Community member must conduct themselves accordingly and seek to avoid even the appearance of improper behavior. This Code of Conduct applies to all the FIWARE Community member regardless their role in the FIWARE Community itself. Conduct in violation of this policy is unacceptable in the workplace and in any work-related setting outside the workplace. Any member who violates this Code of Conduct will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of his/her FIWARE Community membership. This Code of Conduct cover also individual behavior a member of the FIWARE Community, in any forum, mailing list, wiki, web site, IRC channel, public meeting or private correspondence. the FIWARE Community Members and governance body are ultimately accountable to the FIWARE Community Board of Directors. This Code of Conduct should be interpreted in light of the purpose of the FIWARE Community, and composition of it membership. This Code of Conduct should not be read to restrict any individual covered by this Code of Conduct from performing his or her fiduciary duty to a FIWARE Community Core or Regular Member. Compliance The Individual Members, Core Members, and Regular Members of the FIWARE Community shall comply with the FIWARE Communitys Governance Model document and other internal regulation (as may be applicable from time to time) and comply with the rule and regulation of federal, state, and local governments, and any other appropriate regulatory agency (as may be applicable from time to time). They shall proactively promote ethical behaviour a a responsible member among peers, in the framework of the FIWARE Community and in the community. Acting in the (sole) interest of the FIWARE Community The BoD members, the TSC member and any other person who are acting in their capacity a member of governing body or committee of or exercising a similar function within the FIWARE Community, shall perform their duty and conduct themselves in conformity with the interest of the FIWARE Community according to it Governance document and other internal regulation without seeking nor accepting instruction from any government, authority, company, organisation or person external to the FIWARE Community. The BoD member and the TSC member must base their decision on a proper consideration of the overall good of the FIWARE Community, and act in a neutral way must not act in the interest of individual stakeholder or group of stakeholder over the interest of the FIWARE Community a a whole. Information The BoD members, the TSC member and any other person who are acting in their capacity a member of body or committee of the FIWARE Community should provide information that is accurate, complete, objective, relevant, timely, and understandable. They should share knowledge and maintain skill important and relevant to the FIWARE Communitys needs. The work carried out in the FIWARE Community is aimed to be used by other people, and the FIWARE Community work in turn will depend on the work of others. Any decision taken will affect user and colleagues, so they should be taken having all those consequence into account when making decisions. the FIWARE Community ha a global base of user and of contributors. Even if it is not obvious at the time, contribution to the FIWARE Community activity will impact the work of others. Confidentiality Discretion The BoD members, the TSC member and other person who are acting in their capacity a member of governing body or committee of or exercising a similar function within the FIWARE Community, should refrain from all behaviour that could affect the dignity of their duties, in particular concerning public pronouncements. The FIWARE Community is a community based on transparency and openness, however there are situations, defined by the BoD, in which the BoD members, the TSC member and any other person who are acting in their capacity a member of body or committee of the FIWARE Community should maintain maximum discretion regarding any fact and information that come to their attention when performing their duty and they should maintain confidentiality of deliberations, discussion and decision within the various FIWARE Community bodies. This case they should not (i) communicate, in whatever form, to any non-authorised person any document or information that ha not been made available to the general public, and not (ii) use document or information obtained in the performance of their duty for any other purpose than the performance of their duties. They remain committed to this obligation even after termination of their duty with the FIWARE Community. For the avoidance of doubt, the confidentiality of deliberations, discussion and decision within the BoD or the TSC that are not confidential ha to be preserved within the respective body. Integrity Professionalism and respect The BoD member and the TSC member must conduct themselves in such a way a to maintain the integrity of and public confidence in the FIWARE Community without abusing their voting right or other membership right in the FIWARE Community. Members should not attempt to manipulate election result at all levels. Open debate is welcome, but vote trading, ballot stuffing and other form of abuse are not acceptable. Each Individual Member within the FIWARE Community shall at all time act honestly, in good faith and in a professional manner. Following are the cornerstone principles: The FIWARE Community member treat one another with respect. Everyone can make a valuable contribution to the FIWARE Community: not necessarily everybody always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. Some frustration now and then may arise, but it is not acceptable to allow such frustration to turn into a personal attack. Its important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. It is a must for the FIWARE Community member to be respectful when dealing with other contributor a well a with people outside the FIWARE Community and with user of FIWARE technologies. Collaboration is central to the FIWARE Community a a well established principle in the whole free software community. This collaboration involves individual working with others in team within the FIWARE Community, team working with each other within the FIWARE Community, and individual and team within the FIWARE Community working with other project outside. Wherever possible, it is important to work closely with upstream and downstream project and others in the free software community to coordinate FIWARE technical, advocacy, documentation, and other work. The FIWARE Community work should be done transparently and should involve a many interested party a early a possible. If a different approach is decided, early information through the FIWARE Community dedicated channel should be made, together with regularly information on work progress providing a much a possible always complete information. Disagreements, both social and technical, happen all the time and the FIWARE Community is no exception. It is important that to resolve disagreement and differing view constructively and with the help of the FIWARE Community and the FIWARE Community process a appropriate. Governance body at all level are there to help to decide the right and best course for the FIWARE Community. When a member goal differ dramatically from those of the others, it is encouraged and appreciated the creation of alternative implementations, so that the community can test new idea and contribute to the discussion. Nobody know everything, and nobody is expected to be perfect in the FIWARE Community. Asking question avoids many problem down the road, and so question are encouraged. Those who are asked question should be responsive and helpful. However, when asking a question, care must be taken to do so in an appropriate forum. Independence The FIWARE Community BoD member and the TSC member shall act in good faith, responsibly, and with due care, competence, and diligence, without misrepresenting material fact or allowing one independent judgment to be subordinated. The FIWARE Community BoD member and the TSC member must always use independent judgment in the exercise of their mandate and they cannot receive voting instructions, except for instruction provided by a member to another member a his/her proxy holder. If a member of the BoD or the TSC vote against a resolution of the BoD or the TSC, he/she must nevertheless publicly support that resolution if it ha been adopted by the FIWARE Community. If a BoD or TSC member cannot reconcile this duty of obedience with his/her conscience, he/she must resign from the relevant body. Commitment of governance body member The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community should be committed to the purpose of the FIWARE Community and should base their decision and take such action a necessary to support and further those purposes. The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community should be familiar with the FIWARE Communitys activities, organisation, financial situation, culture and legal framework. The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community should have the necessary time and expertise to perform their duties. In case this is no longer the case, they should resign. The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community should be present at each meeting of the BoD or the TSC respectively, unless there is a good justification, and they should well prepare each meeting. Corruption Bribery Fraud The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community shall not offer or deliver any sum of money or anything of value to national or European government official to influence a discretionary decision, e.g. with a view to obtaining certain subsidies, approval or authorisations, or an exemption from certain legal or contractual obligations. Likewise, they shall not offer or deliver to partner or third party any sum of money, regardless of the intention. The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community shall not offer to actual or potential business relationship nor solicit or accept from them any benefit that do not fall within the customary practice for business gifts. The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community shall achieve responsible use of and control over all asset and resource employed or entrusted and shall not use any asset belonging to the FIWARE Community for their personal benefit or for any benefit other than that of the FIWARE Community. The BoD member and the TSC member of the FIWARE Community shall not commit or participate in any fraudulent act and shall immediately report any fraudulent act committed by others. Human dignity Discrimination Inter-relationships Each individual within and outside the FIWARE Community is to be treated with respect and dignity. The FIWARE Community doe not tolerate any form of discrimination, and in particular not when it is based on personal characteristic such a gender, race, age, religion, political conviction, or physical abilities, nor any form of harassment. Mailing list and web forum are an important part of the FIWARE Community collaboration platform. This Code of Conduct applies to member behavior in those forum too. In addition to what set before in this Code of Conduct, the following principle also apply when using such tools: valid email address to which direct response can be made shall be used; flamewars, trolling, personal attacks, and repetitive argument are element of misbehaviour and should be avoided. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes Bylaws Article I Preamble FIWARE FOUNDATION is an initiative whose mission is to research in the field of information and communication technology (ICT) and the development of an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that will ease the development of new Smart Applications in multiple sector (the FIWARE Mission).This ecosystem will be open to the general public. Results of the advancement in science and research are materialized in an open source platform (the FIWARE Platform) which anyone in the world can use for free. The FIWARE Community comprises all people (individuals/organisations) who are involved in FIWARE, including users, developers, accelerators, technology communities, domain specific communities, start-ups & SMEs, cities, stakeholder in the FIWARE Foundation e.V. (FF) and their employees. The cornerstone and founding principle of the FIWARE Foundation e.V. are independence in decision making, openness, transparency and meritocracy. The FF is a legal independent body whose main purpose is to advance science and research in the ICT sector including the provision of shared resource to help achieving the FIWARE Mission by Empowering, Promoting, Augmenting, Protecting, and Validating the FIWARE Technologies. Article II Definitions FIWARE FIWARE is a rich suite of open source platform components, called FIWARE Generic Enablers (GEs), which can be picked and integrated together and with other component coming from third party to build software platform easing the creation, provision and exploitation of Smart Applications. FIWARE GEs export open standard APIs, typically offered a a Service from dedicated server or from public/private Clouds (compliant with the FIWARE Cloud reference architecture or not). FIWARE Reference Architecture FIWARE GEs have been designed so they can work stand alone while, at the same time, can be integrated to build certain Cloud Services following a given Reference Architecture or, taking the most out of their capability of integration, build a rather powerful and comprehensive Platform Reference Architecture for Cloud-based Smart Applications. Under this assumption there is not just a single FIWARE Reference Architecture but, various Reference Architectures depending on what the platform to build and deploy will serve for. All the FIWARE GEs can be integrated together to build the Reference Architecture of platform particularly suited to support the development of Smart Applications, i.e., application that rely on the capability to gather context information and then be able to process and analyze this information to implement an intelligent behaviour combined with an enhanced user experience. This Reference Architecture is referred a the FIWARE Smart Reference Architecture.Finally, the FIWARE GEs altogether complete the FIWARE Reference Architecture that integrates the FIWARE Cloud, Business Framework and Smart Reference Architectures. Finally, the FIWARE GEs altogether complete the FIWARE Reference Architecture that integrates the FIWARE Cloud, Business Framework and Smart Reference Architectures. FIWARE develops a standard API for context information management. FIWARE GEs implementing this API are referred a Context Brokers and should be present in any FIWARE Smart Reference Architecture. This API is used by application and for the integration of FIWARE GEs. FIWARE Generic Enabler A FIWARE GE is an open source software which is listed in the FIWARE Catalogue. A FIWARE GE must satisfy the following conditions: Its source code should be publicly available and released under an open source licence which doe not require that application that merely use them have to be released under an open source license. Development of the GE should follow the common practice defined for the development of all FIWARE GEs in the FIWARE Community There is a well identified set of GE Owners and Active Contributors, a well a policy for management of contribution by third party The GE is accompanied by Installation, Administration, and Developers Guides following the recommended practice adopted in the FIWARE Community. The GE is accompanied by Training Material and tutorial which are part of existing FIWARE tutorials. It meet any other requirement defined by the FIWARE TSC. Incubated Generic Enabler (iGE) An Incubated Generic Enabler (iGE) is an open source software product whose owner ha proposed for adoption a a new FIWARE GE to be integrated a part of the FIWARE Reference Architecture because: it provides functionality that is generic and independent with respect to application domain it can fit/integrate well with existing FIWARE GEs to build an architecture powered by FIWARE. it specification are open and royalty-free; and it adheres to requirement defined for FIWARE GEs (see definition of GE). Incubated Generic Enablers will be advertised and their traction among the wider community of developer a well a the opportunity to integrate them within FIWARE will be assessed so a decision can be taken about whether they should become FIWARE GEs or not. FIWARE Catalogue The FIWARE Catalogue is the central web site where the entire FIWARE technology offering is publicly available. Each entry in the Catalogue provides information about a FIWARE GE. For each FIWARE GE, there is a set of structured page providing access to the product software and documentation, and the term and condition for it usage. Besides FIWARE GEs, the FIWARE Catalogue also provides access to Incubated GEs. FIWARE Lab A FIWARE instance is a runtime environment where the implementation of a number of FIWARE GE, in general bound to a given FIWARE Reference Architecture, are deployed and offered a a Service. FIWARE Lab (http://lab.fiware.org) work a a non-commercial sandbox environment where innovation and experimentation based on FIWARE Technologies can take place. Entrepreneurs and individual can test FIWARE Technologies a well a their application on FIWARE Lab, exploiting open data published by city and other organizations. FIWARE Lab is deployed over a geographically distributed network of federated FIWARE Lab Nodes. FIWARE Lab node A network of data-centers on top of which a FIWARE Lab Cloud region ha been deployed and is operated by a concrete organization. FIWARE Ops FIWARE Ops is a collection of tool that eas the deployment, setup and operation of FIWARE Lab nodes. It is designed to help expand the infrastructure associated to the FIWARE Lab by mean of federating additional node (data-centers) over time and allowing cooperation of multiple FIWARE Lab node providers. FIWARE Ops comprises the suite of tool used to build, operate and expand the FIWARE Lab. FIWARE Technologies FIWARE Technologies are composed of the following components: FIWARE GEs FIWARE incubated GEs FIWARE Ops Knowledge Base (presentations, videos, ) FIWARE Chapter Coordination of daily activity that are of technical nature is made by the Technical Steering committee with the support of the FIWARE Chapters. The core principle to keep the open nature of these activity is that technical decision making is placed in the hand of technical people who strive to put the interest of contributing to FIWARE FOUNDATION ahead of corporate affiliation. This principle is key to have inclusive policy around FIWARE, contributing to it growth and wider adoption. There are two type of Chapters: Architecture and Mission Support chapters. Architecture Chapters: these chapter are those responsible for the development of FIWARE/Incubated Generic Enabler (GEs) specification and their open source reference implementations. Activities with regard to a particular GE are carried out by the Chapter Active Contributors of that GE. Mission Support Chapters: these chapter are those dealing with technical activity not specifically related to specification and open source implementation of GEs. The FIWARE Lab chapter, coordinating the development of the FIWARE Ops suite of tool and the operation of the FIWARE Lab, is an example of a FIWARE Mission Support Chapter. Technical work within the FIWARE Chapters is intended to advance ICT technologies. Such advancement can be in the form of implementing brand new technologies, but also evolving/adapting existing technology eventually starting from good available technology even if produced from the outside of the FIWARE Community. In this respect good and mutual beneficial relationship with other relevant community (e.g. OpenStack, Apache) are in scope of the FIWARE Mission. Article III Name, Purpose and Objetives 1 Name and Registered Seat The Association is namedFIWARE Foundation e.V.The Association ha it main office in Berlin and shall be registered in the association register of local court Berlin-Charlottenburg. Dependent branch or subordinate office may at any time be established by the Board of Directors (BoD) at any place. The fiscal year is the calendar year. 2 Purpose of the Association 1. Purpose of FIWARE Foundation e.V. are the advancement of science and research and education in the field of Smart Applications, This will be achieved through the support and implementation of the FIWARE Mission, i.e. the development of an open sustainable ecosystem around public, royalty-free and implementation-driven software platform standard that will ease the development of new Smart Applications in multiple sector and for the benefit of the public. This ecosystem will be open to the general public. Results of the advancement in science and research are materialized in an open source platform (the FIWARE Platform) which anyone in the world can use for free. The FIWARE Foundation ha been constituted a a non-profit association. 2. The statutory purpose of FIWARE Foundation e.V. shall in particular be realized by researching and developing an open sustainable ecosystem by doing research in the ICT technology sector and providing data information (open source) obtained by research to the public; organization and performance of project for further researching and developing the FIWARE Mission, i.e. an open ecosystem; organization and performance of summits, conferences, workshops, lecture and other events, especially on the topic FIWARE Mission and the ICT technology, i.e. research, development and usage of the ICT technology and an open sustainable ecosystem, including such topic a e.g. sustainability, public relations, marketing, trademark policy and CLA process. The participant shall also be enabled to organize and perform all kind of events, information, discussion and other activity for knowledge transfer in those area by themselves (training for the trainers). transfer of ICT-knowledge and information about the FIWARE technology through publication (especially on the internet) a well a through events, which enables the participant and user to write great code without overly painful process or tool by providing access to a set of reference platforms, including for large-scale testing, in a way that take care of the legal issues, and to use the FIWARE technology best. 3. Organizational Principles are: TO EMPOWER: The FFs member to organize all sort of events, information, discussion and other activity and resource Developers to write great code without overly painful process or tool in a way that take care of the legal issue and by providing access to a set of reference platforms, including for large-scale testing Users to have access to great software and provide feedback and input on the direction for the FIWARE Technologies and by educating them on the best us of said technology TO PROMOTE: The development of new technology The education of developer producing new technology in the field of ICT technology The knowledge of user using them TO AUGMENT by: Increasing interface for connectivity Increasing use case for new market Consolidating or Promoting Standards. TO PROTECT: The FIWARE trademark ownership The compliance with the FIWARE Code of Conduct FIWARE Technologies by ensuring they remain freely available by facilitating the open development process and ensuring they are not misused The meritocracy which guide decision making. TO VALIDATE: Quality Assurance for the FIWARE Technologies Labelling for the FIWARE Technologies Versioning for the FIWARE Technologies. 3 Common Public Interest and Altruism FF is a non-profit organization. FF exclusively and directly pursues non-profit purpose in the public interest (gemeinntzige Zwecke) within the meaning of the chapter on Tax-privileged purpose of the German Fiscal Code. It shall primarily be financed by member fees, donation and may receive public funding. In addition the FF might provide non-commercial services, such a courses, seminars, and ad hoc consultancy. Promotion may be provided in the (non-exclusively) form of event management, such a the FIWARE Summit, Conferences, meetings. FF is acting altruistically. It doe not primarily pursue it own economic purposes. The fund of FF may be used exclusively for the purpose set out in the Articles of Association. The member shall not receive any benefit from the fund of FF. FF may not provide a benefit for any person by mean of expenditure unrelated to the purpose of FF or disproportionately high remuneration. 4 Dedication of Assets Where FF is dissolved or where it non-profit purpose cease to apply, the asset of the association will devolve upon a legal person under public law or another non-profit corporation (gemeinntzige Krperschaft) for advancement of science and research and education. Article IV Membership 1 General right and Duties and Member Levels Members of FF can be individuals, corporate body and any public legal entity. The FF shall have four level of members: Platinum Members (PM), Gold Members (GM), Associated member (AM) and Individual member (IM). The PM and GM level recognise Strategic End User sub levels. These are level dedicated to non Information Communications Technology (ICT) organisations. Members have the right to use FFs service and attend event and seminar etc. Members have the right to attend the General Assembly and vote. Each Member ha one vote. Each Member ha to respect and support the interest of FF, especially the FIWARE Mission. Each Member ha to provide FF with adequate resource to achieve the association purpose. Every FIWARE Foundation member shall provide resource according to the Fee Code (defined in XIII.) set by the BoD. When enrolling for the first time with FF, each new member agrees to an initial membership of two years. The BoD may set annual fee in a separate Fee Code which is published on the Website of FF. The annual fee are there to just provide sustainability mean for the FF daily operations. Membership is not transferable. The Founding Members,(1) Atos Information Technology GmbH,(2) ENGINEERING Ingegneria Informatica S.p.A.,(3) Telefnica Digital Espaa, S.L.,(4) ORANGE S.A.,are PM. 2 Platinum Members (PMs) Platinum Members (PMs) are those who, strategically committing to FIWARE, hold the key responsibility in managing the FF. They may decide on simple majority whether or not another legally established organization could join the FF a a PM. In order to qualify a PM, Members have the obligation to comply with the provision of this article. PMs have the right to attend and vote during the meeting (General Assembly and BoD Meetings): Any legally established organization, except non-profit organisations, may apply for PM. PM membership is lost upon any substantial change of ownership or field of activity. Substantial change of ownership mean the sale of all or substantially all the asset of the Platinum Member; any merger, consolidation or acquisition of the Platinum Member with, by or into another corporation, entity or person; or any change in the ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting capital stock of the Platinum Member in one or more related transactions. PM Strategic End Users:This level of membership is dedicated to those company and organisation who are actually user of ICT, but not ICT company or organisation a such. Access to PM membership is submitted to the agreement of the Board of Directors. The special right granted to the PMs are special right pursuant to 35 German Civil Code (BGB). Special right of a member may not be adversely affected by a resolution of the general meeting without his approval. 3 Gold Members (GM) The GMs are those legally established organization committed to FIWARE having an active role in pursuing the FIWARE Mission. GMs have the right to: Attend and vote during the General Assembly of the FF Elect GMs representative in the BoD, who are entitled with the right to vote during the meeting of the BoD. Any legally established organization, except non-profit, may apply for GM. This doe not pertain to Public Administrations that can apply for GM a Strategic End User. GM Strategic End Users: This level of membership is dedicated to those company and organisation who are actually user of ICT, but not ICT company or organisation a such. Access to GM membership is submitted to approval from the Board of Directors. The special right granted to the GMs are special right pursuant to 35 German Civil Code (BGB). 4 Individual member (IM) IM shall be any natural person who promotes the FIWARE Mission. IMs have the right to freely attend and vote during the General Assembly of the FF. IMs can have a seat in the Technical Steering Committee (see TSC paragraph below). IMs not working for a PM or a GM cannot be part of the Board of Directors. 5 Associated member (AM) The AMs are non-profit legal entity (including university and similar organizations) that Do not fall under any of the category above; and Have an interest in the purpose of the FIWARE Foundation. AMs have the right to attend and vote during the General Assembly of the FF. AMs cannot be part of the Board of Directors. 6 Procedures for admission, resignation and termination for Members The organisation and person who wish to become Member of the FF shall: Submit their application for membership which will be directly handled by the COO providing the information required by the BoD; and Sign an Adherence Agreement; and Adhere to the Code of Conduct and the Fee Code of the FF. After review of the application and execution of the Adherence Agreement by the applicant, and after verification that the organisation or the person satisfies the criterion for membership established by the Articles of Association, and in the case of organisation after the positive vote of the BoD, the CEO or any representative designated by him/her among the BoD member and acting on his/her behalf shall admit the organisation or the person a Member. The COOshall then add the organisation or the person to the Members Registry. The BoD by simple majority decides on incorporation of PMs, GMs and AMs. The effective date of membership shall be the date on which the person or the organisation is added to the Member Registry. Members may terminate their membership by giving written notice to the COO. The effective date of termination of the Member shall be the date of removal from the Members Registry. Art. IV., 1 Sec. 5 above shall remain unaffected. The BoD may direct the COO and CEO to terminate a Member for violation of the Adherence Agreement if the violation is not cured within the period provided in the Adherence Agreement or for not exercising it right during 3 months. Article V Bodies of the Association 1 Internal Organisation The FIWARE Foundation shall have the following body Board of Directors (BoD), Board of Officers, Technical Steering Committee (TSC), and General Assembly. 2 Board of Directors 1. Functions and Membership The business and affair of the FIWARE Foundation shall be controlled by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. The BoD shall: Provide the Board of Officers with strategic, financial, policy and marketing oversight Determine the frequency and type of meeting of the BoD and the General Assembly Propose conditions, privileges, powers, and voting right of any level of Members. It may propose to create one or more additional level of Membership Enforce the Bylaws/Articles of Association Approve the Balance sheet and the Budget before they are submitted to the General Assembly Select, appoint and support the Board of Officers and review the CEOs work Ensure availability and adequacy of financial resource Set salary of regular employee and financial compensation for exceptional contribution of Members Establish, review and change the Fee Code, Code of Conduct and Association Code Amend the Articles of Association pursuant to Article X. below. 2. Members of the BoD are: A duly nominated representative for each PM Representatives of the GMs. The number of GM representative on the BoD shall be equal to the number of GM. In all cases, the number of GM seat shall be le or equal to PM seats. The Chair of the TSC and the CEO (both with no vote) are permanently invited to the BoD meetings. Each Member shall hold the seat for a term not to exceed three years, but may be re-nominated or re-elected according to the membership level. Members of the BoD have the same right and obligation in their function. Upon resignation or premature death of a Member of the BoD a a representative of an FF Member, the represented Member is entitled to replace him/her by another representative. The BoD shall create among FF member committee to support it daily function according to what is prescribed in Article VI. 3. Election of the GM representative in the BoD The GMs elect among themselves the representative to the BoD. The GM representative in the BoD are empowered to take decision on behalf of the GMs. GM representative in the BoD are completely renewed every 12 months. Elections are held 5 week prior to the General Assembly meeting, to take place every 12 months, with nomination due 6 week prior to the General Assembly and election held open for no le than five business days. Elections run through an online system which will be decided by the BoD. 4. Quorum and Voting right The BoD will be effectively constituted with the attendance of one half plus one of the members, no matter their level of Membership. The Members of the BoD shall elect from among it member and with a 2/3 majority thereof, the person to hold the position of Chairman of the BoD. The Chairman of the BoD shall preside at all meeting of the Board of Directors and shall have such other duty and authority a may be conferred by the Board of Directors. The Members of BoD shall propose a candidate for Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and shall vote to elect him/her. The CEO shall be elected by unanimity of vote at the first round, by 75% of vote at the second round, and 50% of vote from the third round on. 5. Meetings The BoD may hold meetings, both regular and special. Unless otherwise restricted by these Bylaws, member of the BoD may participate in a meeting of the BoD by mean of conference telephone, video conference equipment, or other communication equipment by which all person participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. Regular meeting may be held on a scheduled basis at such time and at such place a shall from time to time be determined by the BoD. Special meeting of the BoD may be called by the CEO with 10 business day notice, either personally or by telecopy, commercial delivery service, electronic transmission, or similar. In case of special urgent matter the CEO can call a meeting with 5 business day notice, either personally or by telecopy, commercial delivery service, electronic transmission, or similar. Special meeting of the BoD may be called by notice given by a simple majority of it Members in the same conditions. The BoD may invite people to attend the meetings. 3 Board of Officers (BoO) The Board of Officers is the body responsible for the daily well-functioning of the FF. In particular the BoO shall:a. Formulate the Annual Reportb. Prepare and keep the Balance sheet up-to-date. The Board of Officers of the FF shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer (CEO), a Chief Operation Officer (COO), a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and a Chief Marketing Officer (CMO). FF is represented jointly by two of it four members; the CEO, the COO, the CTO and the CMO who constitute the Board according to Section 26 of the German Civil Code.a. The CEO: The Chief Executive Officer of the FF shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business and management. He/She shall attend the BoD and GA meetings.b. The COO shall keep and safeguard the Books of Minutes of the meeting and issue certification with the approval of the Chairman of the BoD.c. The COO is responsible for properly accounting the fee and other incomes, prepares the Balance Sheet and Budget under guideline provided by the BoD, and present the Balance Sheet and Budget to the member during the General Assembly. Accounting and bookkeeping may be performed by an external service company. Officers shall be appointed annually by the Board of Directors at it first meeting. Any officer may resign by delivering his written resignation to the FF at it principal office or to the CEO or COO. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, by the Board of Directors. The COO shall perform such duty and shall have such power a the Board of Directors or the CEO may from time to time prescribe. In addition, the duty and power to give notice of all meeting of Members and special meeting of the Board of Directors, to keep a record of the proceeding of all meeting of Members and the Board of Directors and prepare list of Members and their address a required, to be custodian of corporate record and the corporate seal and to affix and attest to the same on documents. 4 Technical Steering Committee 1. Functions and Membership The Technical Steering Committee shall be the body where technical decision are taken. The Board of Directors shall consider only those additions, combinations, split or deletion of the FIWARE Technologies that are recommended by the Technical Steering Committee, but shall have the sole authority to approve or reject such additions, combinations, split and deletion of the FIWARE Technologies. It shall be composed by: Two representative of each FIWARE Chapter One representative of each PM Remarkable Individual Members elected by the Chapter Active Contributors, up to one third of the number of Chapter Leaders plus PM representatives. The TSC may define specific procedure for managing the evolution of the FIWARE Technologies. The TSC member shall be also FF Individual Members. 2. Election to the Technical Steering Committee Chapter Active Contributors (CAC) shall elect Chapter Leaders by simple majority Remarkable Individual Members shall be elected by simple majority of all the CACs voting. TSC seat are completely renewed every 12 month at most. A separate election is run for each FIWARE Chapter seat. These election are collectively held 5 week prior to the General Assembly meeting, to take place every 12 months, with nomination due 6 week prior to the General Assembly and election held open for no le than five business day Elections run through an online system which will be decided by the TSC. Upon completion of the election, the Technical Steering Committee shall give notice to the Board of Directors and the COO. Each Technical Steering Committee member shall hold the seat for a term not to exceed one year, but may be re-elected to the Technical Steering Committee. Any member of the Technical Steering Committee may resign by delivering notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the COO. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt. The Technical Steering Committee shall, within 15 days, elect a replacing member. Replacement of PM representative is made directly by the corresponding PM organisation, replacement of FIWARE Chapter representative is made by election within the corresponding FIWARE Chapter according to the rule above specified, and replacement of Remarkable Individual Members is made through the non- elected list of yearly election starting from the first person not elected. The Technical Steering Committee shall meet at least quarterly. 3. Technical Steering Committee Chair The Members of the TSC shall elect from among TSC member with a simple majority thereof it Chair for 1 year, who will attend the meeting of the BoD with voice but no vote. 4. Technical Steering Committee Meetings Minutes of the meeting is a collaborative work under the responsibility of the TSC Chair. At the end of each meeting the minute are transmitted to the COO who shall keep and safeguard the Books of Minutes of the meeting of the TSC. 5. Chapter Active Contributors People who perform update in the content of a Chapter repository are referred a Chapter Active Contributors (CAC). The repository should also store the meeting minute and work progress assessment documents; however such document do not represent source for a person being accounted a a Chapter Active Contributor. Only Chapter Active Contributors who are also Individual Members will participate to the election of Chapter Leader and of Remarkable Individual Members. 6. FIWARE Chapter Leaders A main and deputy Chapter Leader (CL) are elected per each FIWARE Chapter by that Chapter Active Contributors (CAC). They manage the overall operation of a chapter, drive the chapter goals, keeping the chapter consistency, and resolve technical dispute within their chapter. In this respect the main CL, or when needed his/her deputy, is the ultimate responsible for the good and timely progress of work within the chapter. Architecture Chapter Leaders specifically have to ensure that GEs within the chapter can integrate well together and with GEs from other chapters, overall building a coherent and comprehensive FIWARE Reference Architecture. Each chapter community should be self-managing by the contributors, and all dispute should be resolved through active debate and discussion by the community itself. However if a given debate cannot be clearly resolved, the CLs can decide the outcome. Although the CLs (main and deputy) are generally not involved in decision at GE level, they still ha oversight over GE-specific decisions, especially when they affect other GEs in the chapter, other chapters, or might negatively affect to the general FIWARE Reference Architecture. Each main CL is the ultimate responsible for the good shape of his/her chapter repository. 5 General Assembly (GA) The General Assembly is the annual assembly of all member of the FF (PM, GM, AM and IM). The Ordinary General Assembly is held once a year and is convened by the Chairman of the Board of Directors with a period of notice of at least 30 day in text form (letter or e-mail), indicating the agenda, to be sent to each member. The venue and time for the Assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors. Extraordinary General Assemblies will be convened at any time if this is requested either by four member of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the CEO, or at least 10% of all members. The request is to be made in writing and the point to be discussed is to be indicated. Such meeting may be called to conduct business for any purpose or purpose prescribed in the notice of the meeting and shall be held on such date and at such time a the BoD may fix. The invitation must include the agenda and be sent out with a period of notice of at least 10 working days. The COO of the FF shall prepare at least 30 day before each annual meeting/two day after providing notice of a special meeting a complete list of the Members entitled to vote in alphabetical order for each class of Member. Such list shall be treated a confidential and shall be open to the examination of any Member of the class for a period of at least 30 day prior to the meeting . The General Assembly is chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or if the latter is prevented from attending, by a representative appointed by him/her. The Chairman of the meeting shall call the meeting to order, establish the agenda, and conduct the business of the meeting in accordance therewith or, at the Chairmans discretion, the business of the meeting may be conducted otherwise in accordance with the wish of the Members in attendance. 6 Decision making of the General Assembly The General Assembly is quorate if more than 20% of the member with PM, GM, and AM, present in person or proxy, a well a at least 5% of the Individual Members are present.If 20% of the member with PM, GM, and AM, are not present in person or proxy or le than 5% of the Individual Members at the first meeting, a second meeting of the General Assembly shall be convened at the latest thirty (30) day after the first meeting. The second meeting of the General Assembly shall validly be constituted and deliberate irrespective of the number of Members present. Each Individual Member whose effective date of membership is earlier than thirty (30) day before the meeting take place, may vote immediately after he or she becomes an Individual Member. All member (PM, GM, AM, IM) have one vote. As a general rule, the General Assembly take it decision with a simple majority unless otherwise specified in these Articles of Association and by mandatory law. The General Assembly is responsible for:a. the approval of the annual financial statement and the budget for the coming financial year;b. the approval of the work of the Board of Directors and of the Officers;c. proposal for amendment to the Articles of Association and to the purpose pursuant to Article X. (1, 3);d. the dissolution and the transfer of assets;e. all other matter that are presented to it by the Board of Directors for decision making. The appointment and election to the Board of Directors and to the Technical Steering Committee will be notified to the General Assembly. The General Assembly meeting will be held either in person or virtual (online procedure) or in a mixed form. The online procedure may only be accessible for member with their legitimation data and a separate access word.In the online procedure the access word valid in each case only for the current meeting is announced with a separate email directly before the meeting, maximally 3 hour before.The member who want to use the online procedure must be able to take note of the discussion during the meeting directly, simultaneously and continuously and must be able to exercise his right to vote with regard to all point on which the meeting ha to decide in accordance with the voting right stipulated in the statutes. Article VI Mission Support Committees In order to perform some specific duties, the BoD may form dedicated Mission Support Committees (MSC). MSCs may be asked to perform support daily and mission critical task to pursue the FIWARE Mission. One or more FF member can propose MSCs. In this case they have to submit a proposal to the BoD containing the MSC charter and Governance Model. The BoD will approve the proposal eventually making specific recommendation to be included in the charter and Governance Model. The BoD may decide to provide resource for the task performed by the MSCs from the FF budget, but any Member may individually contribute thereto. MSCs are composed of FF member with known competence in the field of the task to be performed by the MSCs. MSC operation are yearly verified by the BoD, who may decide to keep the MSC in operation or not. FF may issue open call for tender to find partner with a view to help FF meet it Organizational Objectives. Article VII Intellectual Property Rights Intellectual Policies are defined in the Association Code publicly available. Article VIII Grants, Contracts, Loans, etc. The making of grant and contributions, and otherwise rendering financial assistance for the Purposes of the FIWARE Foundation may be authorized by the BoD. The CEO is individually authorized on behalf of the FIWARE Foundation to enter into any contract for grants, contribution and otherwise rendering financial assistance for the Purposes of the FIWARE Foundation or execute and satisfy any instrument.The CEO shall inform the BoD of any such action at the following meeting of the BoD. Article IX Amendment Proxy The (founding) member authorize the member of the Board of Officers, the CEO and the COO, each of them individually and being released from the restriction of section 181 of the German Civil Code and with the authorization to delegate power of attorney, to make all declaration or action which may be necessary or useful for the registration of the Society and obtaining it benefit to the public; in particular to detain General Assemblies and to resolute amendment (including the change of name of Society) and to change, to withdraw and to apply again the registration of the Society to meet interim order and concern of the Society register or the tax office. Article X Amendment of the article and dissolution These Articles of Association may be altered, amended or repealed or new bylaw may be adopted by the BoD with a 2/3 majority of BoD member at any regular or special meeting. The dissolution of the FF can also be decided by the BoD with a majority of a 2/3 majority of BoD members. The dissolution requires the consent of the General Assembly with a 2/3 majority. In addition to an amendment proposed and approved by the Board of Directors, a proposal to amend these Bylaws may be made by one of the following means: A proposal of the Technical Steering Committee approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of individual serving on the TSC A proposal of the Individual Members that is approved by at least ten percent (10%) of the Individual Members A proposal of the Gold Members that is approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Gold Members, or A proposal of the Platinum Members that is approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Platinum Members.The proposal must be in writing and must be signed by each approving Technical Steering Committee member, Individual Member, Platinum or Gold Member, a applicable. Amendments to the Articles of Association and the dissolution of the FF are only possible if they have been duly announced at least thirty (30) day before the meeting of the BoD taking this decision. In the event of dissolution, the BoO handle a proper Liquidation Process. Article XI Indeminification of Directors and Officers in the Execution of his/her Office Each person who wa or is made a party, is involved in any action, suit or proceeding which are directly linked to the FIWARE Foundation, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or wa a director or officer of the FIWARE Foundation shall be indemnified and held harmless by the FIWARE Foundation for damage caused by slight negligence or negligence and only to the extent that damage are not covered by insurance. The FIWARE Foundation shall maintain insurance (D&O Insurance) to the extent reasonably available, at it expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the FIWARE Foundation or third party against any such expense, liability or loss. Any amendment of any provision of this Article shall not adversely affect any right or protection of an indemnitee or his successor in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment. Article XII Code of Conduct The FF Code of Conduct is publicly available at www.fiware.org. Any person and organisation wishing to become a Member of the FF shall sign the FF Code of Conduct. Article XIII Fees and Charges The FIWARE Foundation shall keep correct and complete book and record of accounts, held by the COO. The Board of Directors may set fee and charge for the service and benefit provided by FIWARE Foundation, with the goal of fully recovering the reasonable cost of it operation and establishing reasonable reserve for future expense and contingency (Fee Code). Such fee and charge shall be fair and equitable, shall be published for public and once adopted shall be published on fiware.org in a sufficiently detailed manner so a to be readily accessible. Article XIV In case of discrepancy between the English and the German version of these Articles the German version shall always take precedence. The accuracy and completeness of the bylaw according to 71 Abs. 1 S. 4 BGB is assured.Berlin, den 01.10.2020 ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes IMPRINT FIWARE Foundation, e.V. Franklinstrasse 13A10587 BerlinE-Mail: fiware-general-help at lists.fiware.org VAT Identification Number in accordancewith 27 a VAT Tax Act: DE309937516 Court of jurisdictionVereinsregister CharlottenburgRegistered non for profit charitable associationRegistration no. VR 35344B Responsible editor:fiware-website at lists.fiware.org Please note: If you have question concerning FIWARE Foundation please refer to to issue u those questions. Board of OfficersAndrea Battaglia, Chief Executive Officer, Acting CTOStefano De Panfilis, Chief Operating OfficerLaura Ileana Schipani, Acting Chief Marketing Officer Usage RightsCopyright by FIWARE Foundation, e.V.All right reserved. Permission is granted to download or print material published on this site for personal use only. Its use for any other purpose, and in particular it commercial use or distribution, are strictly forbidden in the absence of prior written approval. Please address your request for approval to: FIWARE Foundation, e.V. Franklinstrasse 13A 10587 Berlin Germany Notwithstanding this requirement, material may be downloaded or printed for use in connection with press report on the activity of the FIWARE Foundation on condition that the following term are complied with: No alteration may be made to pictorial content, with the exception of framing modification to emphasize the central motif. The source must be quoted and two free reference copy must be sent to the above-mentioned address. Such usage is free of charge. Disclaimer We cannot assume any liability for the content of external pages. Solely the operator of those linked page are responsible for their content. We make every reasonable effort to ensure that the content of this Web site is kept up to date, and that it is accurate and complete. Nevertheless, the possibility of error cannot be entirely ruled out. We do not give any warranty in respect of the timeliness, accuracy or completeness of material published on this Web site and disclaim all liability for (material or non-material) loss or damage incurred by third party arising from the use of content obtained from the Web site. Registered trademark and proprietary names, and copyrighted text and images, are not generally indicated a such on our Web pages. But the absence of such indication in no way implies that these names, image or text belong to the public domain in the context of trademark or copyright law. ||||| 2024 FIWARE Foundation, e.V. The use of fiware.org website is subject to the acceptance of the and . We are using cooky to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cooky we are using or switch them off in settings. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Reject Settings Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Cookie Policy Privacy Overview This website us cooky so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs function such a recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which section of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information in our . Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all time so that we can save your preference for cookie settings. This website us the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level PHPSESSID i4trust.org Session PHP session cookie associated with embedded content from this domain. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This mean that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cooky again. 3rd Party Cookies This website us Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such a the number of visitor to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cooky enabled help u to improve our website. This website us the following 3rd party cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _ga .spotlightr.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .hotjar.com 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _ga .fiware.org 2 year Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gaexp .spotlightr.com 3 month Google Analytics. Medium _gat .fiware.org 1 hour Google Analytics. Medium gat_gtag_UA*_1 .fiware.org 1 hour Google Tag Manager to store and track conversions. Medium _gid .spotlightr.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .hotjar.com 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium _gid .fiware.org 1 day Google Analytics to count and track pageviews. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website us the following additional cookies: Cookie Domain Expiration Purpose Intrusiveness level _hjFirstSeen .hotjar.com 30 minute Hotjar cookie unclassified Medium _hjTLDTest .hotjar.com Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjTLDTest .fiware.org Session Hotjat to get temporal information about cooky path. Low _hjid .hotjar.com 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium _hjid .fiware.org 1 year Hotjar to store a unique user ID. Medium ajs_anonymous_id .hotjar.com 1 year Atlasian Jira Servicedesk to store last visit. Medium datr .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to provide fraud prevention. Medium etBloomCookie_optin_* www.fiware.org 1 day This cooky help u manage the sign-up to our mailing lists. Medium et_bloom_optin_optin_4_*_imp www.fiware.org 1 year Captures the Name and Email ID for Newsletters. Medium fr .facebook.com 3 month Facebook to Enable ad delivery or retargeting. Medium ginger-cookie www.fiware.org 1 year Medium intercom-id-* .spotlightr.com 9 month Intercom Messenger. Medium intercom-session-* .spotlightr.com 7 day Intercom Messenger. Medium sb .facebook.com 2 year Facebook to store browser details. Medium viewerId www.fiware.org 3 month The viewerID cookie allows the site to retain your product viewing history across sessions. Medium vooplayerVideo* www.fiware.org Session It serf to determine which part of the video the user ha stayed. Medium Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Cookie Policy More information about our Enable All Save Changes