Gaia-X strives for innovation through digital sovereignty. Their goal is to establish an ecosystem, whereby data is shared and made available in a trustworthy environment. Its intention is to give the control back to the user by retaining sovereignty over their data. The outcome will not be a cloud. It is a federated system linking many cloud service provider and user together in a transparent environment that will drive the European data economy of tomorrow. Gaia-X will provide a genuine alternative by reducing the barrier to cloud adoption associated with a lack of confidence and freedom of choice; and it will speed the creation of innovative solution in a secure and trusted environment for a thriving European digital economy. An indicative list of the current vertical ecosystem include the following: Aerospace, Agriculture, Circular Economy, Education, Energy, Finance, Geoinformation, Health, Manufacturing / Industry 4.0, Media, Mobility, Public Sector, Smart Cities, Smart Living, Space and Logistics. --> not limited to health Mission: together we create an open, transparent, and secure federated digital ecosystem, where data and service respond to common rule and can be and securely built, collated, and shared. Glossary Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation About Gaia-X About Gaia-X A Federated and Secure Data Infrastructure Gaia-X strives for innovation through digital sovereignty. Our goal is to establish an ecosystem, whereby data is shared and made available in a trustworthy environment. Our intention is that we give the control back to the user by retaining sovereignty over their data. Our outcome will not be a cloud. It is a federated system linking many cloud service provider and user together in a transparent environment that will drive the European data economy of tomorrow. 1800 Contributors 300 Members 1 Goal Gaia-X Milestones 2019 today October 2019 The German and French Ministries of Economic Affairs present the project Gaia-X June 2020 First expert forum and Ministers talk September 2020 Gaia-X Association submits founding document November 2020 Gaia-X Summit with more than 5000 participant November 2020 Official founding of the first six Gaia-X Hubs January 2021 Official founding of the Gaia-X Association June 2021 First General Assembly and election of the first Board of Directors September 2021 Concept Gaia-X label November 2021 Policy Rules Document November 2021 Labelling Framework November 2021 Gaia-X Core Services V1 November 2021 Second Gaia-X Summit December 2021 Architecture Document December 2021 Federation Services Kickstarter December 2021 Vision & Strategy January 2022 Federation Services alpha version February 2022 Labelling Criteria April 2022 Federation Services V1 April 2022 Policy Rules Document April 2022 Labelling Criteria May 2022 Ordinary General Assembly November 2022 Third Gaia-X Summit March 2023 Market-X March 2023 Launch GXDCH (Gaia-X Digital Clearing House) May 2023 Tech-X November 2023 Forth Gaia-X Summit In-depth information about the technical concept April 21, 2022 May 20, 2022 May 25, 2022 Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation What we are Gaia-X is an initiative that develops, based on European values, a digital governance that can be applied to any existing cloud/ edge technology stack to obtain transparency, controllability, portability and interoperability across data and services. Gaia-X is not a market operator, nor will it operate directly or exclusively any of the service required by the governance. Why we do it The future of our economy is driven by digital economy, a new way to build value on top of the existing physical ecosystem, products, and services, using data. This is achieved through the collection and exchange of data across the multiple participant and organisation in the value chain. The exchange of data across organisation is currently constrained by proprietary, non-transparent, non-interoperable technology that do not provide the necessary level of trust. Our concept of sovereignty translates into the autonomy and self-determination user need to operate their technology choices. Gaia-X enables and boost the creation of Data Spaces through trusted platform that comply with common rules, allowing user and provider to trust each other on an objective technological basis, to safely and freely share and exchange data across multiple actors. 1800 Contributors 300 Members 1 Goal Latest news April 22, 2024 Munich, 22 April 2024 Industry and business are in the midst of radical change: sustainability, resilience and securin... April 9, 2024 Gaia-X is delighted to announce the appointment of Alberto Palomoas the new Chief Strategy Officer, enhancing the manag... March 19, 2024 Brussels, Belgium, 19 March 2024 The Market-X Conference & Expo, organised in partnership with the Gaia-X Hub Germ... March 15, 2024 The sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X Hub France in Paris brought together more than 200 participants, from indu... March 7, 2024 In an era where data is not just an asset but the cornerstone of innovation and strategic decision-making, The Data Spac... March 7, 2024 Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction Yo... Read more about our latest news and development Use Cases High-quality Gastric Cancer & lesion data set accessble by researcher everywhere, allow for further clinical research, new, innovative diagnostic methods, better risk assessment and preventive measures. A european platform that help to identify risk with AI through surgical video and data storage Intelligent planning of road maintenance measure in Southern Tyrol Featured Events May 23, 2024 Contributors "Gaia-X, a an association, ha achieved a lot over the last two year and is, now, able to deliver a consistent Trust and Federation framework. Moreover, it now find itself at a pivotal juncture, poised to make a significant impact in the Cloud market. I am delighted to be involved in addressing the forthcoming challenge a Chairwoman of the organisation and contributing to Gaia-X's ongoing journey towards operational reality."Chairwoman of the Gaia-X's BoD & Executive Vice President Digital and Information Management at Airbus "To enable user to retain control over their data, we call for European data sovereignty especially over production and industrial data. By participating in Gaia-X, I am doing my part to support this valuable, forward-looking initiative."Harald A. Summa, Gaia-X AISBL Board of Directors, DE-CIX "A federated data infrastructure and horizontal data exchange are crucial for the European recovery and renewal. The future is built together and requires joint activity - therefore I am delighted to participate in Gaia-X."Lars Albck, Gaia-X Hub Finland, Vastuu Group "It is great to be involved in such a unique initiative that will change the way we handle our data fundamentally. The Federation Services, a foundation of the federated data infrastructure, will enable u to connect in an interoperable and legally compliant way."Emma Wehrwein, Gaia-X Federation Services, eco e.V. Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation What we are Gaia-X is an initiative that develops, based on European values, a digital governance that can be applied to any existing cloud/ edge technology stack to obtain transparency, controllability, portability and interoperability across data and services. Gaia-X is not a market operator, nor will it operate directly or exclusively any of the service required by the governance. Why we do it The future of our economy is driven by digital economy, a new way to build value on top of the existing physical ecosystem, products, and services, using data. This is achieved through the collection and exchange of data across the multiple participant and organisation in the value chain. The exchange of data across organisation is currently constrained by proprietary, non-transparent, non-interoperable technology that do not provide the necessary level of trust. Our concept of sovereignty translates into the autonomy and self-determination user need to operate their technology choices. Gaia-X enables and boost the creation of Data Spaces through trusted platform that comply with common rules, allowing user and provider to trust each other on an objective technological basis, to safely and freely share and exchange data across multiple actors. 1800 Contributors 300 Members 1 Goal Latest news April 22, 2024 Munich, 22 April 2024 Industry and business are in the midst of radical change: sustainability, resilience and securin... April 9, 2024 Gaia-X is delighted to announce the appointment of Alberto Palomoas the new Chief Strategy Officer, enhancing the manag... March 19, 2024 Brussels, Belgium, 19 March 2024 The Market-X Conference & Expo, organised in partnership with the Gaia-X Hub Germ... March 15, 2024 The sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X Hub France in Paris brought together more than 200 participants, from indu... March 7, 2024 In an era where data is not just an asset but the cornerstone of innovation and strategic decision-making, The Data Spac... March 7, 2024 Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction Yo... Read more about our latest news and development Use Cases High-quality Gastric Cancer & lesion data set accessble by researcher everywhere, allow for further clinical research, new, innovative diagnostic methods, better risk assessment and preventive measures. A european platform that help to identify risk with AI through surgical video and data storage Intelligent planning of road maintenance measure in Southern Tyrol Featured Events May 23, 2024 Contributors "Gaia-X, a an association, ha achieved a lot over the last two year and is, now, able to deliver a consistent Trust and Federation framework. Moreover, it now find itself at a pivotal juncture, poised to make a significant impact in the Cloud market. I am delighted to be involved in addressing the forthcoming challenge a Chairwoman of the organisation and contributing to Gaia-X's ongoing journey towards operational reality."Chairwoman of the Gaia-X's BoD & Executive Vice President Digital and Information Management at Airbus "To enable user to retain control over their data, we call for European data sovereignty especially over production and industrial data. By participating in Gaia-X, I am doing my part to support this valuable, forward-looking initiative."Harald A. Summa, Gaia-X AISBL Board of Directors, DE-CIX "A federated data infrastructure and horizontal data exchange are crucial for the European recovery and renewal. The future is built together and requires joint activity - therefore I am delighted to participate in Gaia-X."Lars Albck, Gaia-X Hub Finland, Vastuu Group "It is great to be involved in such a unique initiative that will change the way we handle our data fundamentally. The Federation Services, a foundation of the federated data infrastructure, will enable u to connect in an interoperable and legally compliant way."Emma Wehrwein, Gaia-X Federation Services, eco e.V. Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Gaia-X Academy Gaia-X Academy The Gaia-X Academy ha been established to provide accessible education on the Gaia-X initiative, welcoming both member and non-members. Our course cater to diverse expertise levels, offering foundational knowledge a well a in-depth technical insights. The course span from the basic understanding of Gaia-X to advanced levels, covering aspect such a the data economy, framework structure, and technical components. Participants will gain the ability to lead related initiative and develop the necessary technical competence to support Gaia-X adoption. Additionally, the academy offer a detailed analysis of Gaia-X architecture, enabling participant to design compliant solution and support business outcome effectively. Courses Overview This module explains the concept and core value of Gaia-X, it organisation, and governance model. It will give you an overview of what we do and who we are, the scope and deliverables. This course give an overview about Gaia-X Trust Framework, where doe it come from and what is it for. This course give technical detail about the Gaia-X Trust Framework. It will thus explain the technology and standard used, and also how the Gaia-X component involved in the Gaia-X Compliance are working. This course give an overview of Catalogue browsing in a Gaia-X Context. This course give technical detail about Catalogue Browsing in a Gaia-X Context. It will thus explain the technology and standard used, and also describes how the Gaia-X Credential Event Services and the Gaia-X trust index are working. This course aim to give you an overview of Policy Reasoning in a Gaia-X Context. The lesson will guide you through the understanding of what is a contract, and what policy reasoning means. Then, you will discoverhow policy reasoning is useful. This lesson will end by providing functional information about the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine and how participant interact with it. This course is giving technical detail about Policy Reasoning in a Gaia-X Context. It will thus explain the technology and standard used, and also describes how the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working and also have a presentation about the way Gaia-X Wizard is using it. Course description coming up! Course description coming up! Course description coming up! Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Job Openings Job Openings Have you always dreamed of supporting the idea of an international cloud network? Are you interested in enabling and shaping the future of data sharing? Then we have the right job for you! Whether you have IT development skill or project management experience, the Gaia-X Association offer position in a wide range. We value diversity and therefore welcome all applications. We look forward to hearing from you! Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Contact u Contact We are here to answer any question you may have. You can contact u via our email: For specific question related to Gaia-X Membership, Newsletter or Ecosystems, please use the form below. Interested in becoming a Gaia-X member? Fill in the form below to get more information on how to become a Gaia-X member. Subscribe to the Gaia-X Newsletter Click the button below to subscribe to the Gaia-X Newsletter More info on Gaia-X Ecosystems Click the button below for more info on the Ecosystems Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation FAQ FAQ Gaia-X wa created to allow for the secure, open, and transparent use of data. In this way, self-determined decision can be made on how and where data is stored, processed, and used within the data infrastructure. Gaia-X is characterised by the following core elements: We want to create the next generation of data infrastructure for Europe, it states, it companies, it citizens, and it global partners. This infrastructure need to meet the highest standard and foster innovation. We regard this infrastructure a the cradle of an ecosystem, where data and service can be made available, collected, and shared in an environment of trust. The concept focus on the precise need of user and the added benefit a presented by the use cases. The existing concept will be regarded a a proposal to Europe. We are pursuing this path alongside other European partner and in cooperation with the European Commission. This shall explore and clarify 6 main question frequently asked about Gaia-X: What the association shall be and doe What is sovereignty and the relationship with institution What is the relationship between Gaia-X and extra-european operators, in particular Hyperscalers Role in the context of IPCEI, RRF and of other public funding initiative Data space objective and deliverable within Gaia-X Role of the Hubs and relationship with Gaia-X There are three reason why we need Gaia-X: Data availability: We need a trustworthy, secure, and transparent data infrastructure to exchange and process data. This is how we can use the economy of scale created by the availability of large data set in Europe. Innovation: We require a digital ecosystem that allows for the development of innovative product while also assisting European business and business model in scaling up and becoming globally competitive. Gaia-X serf a the foundation for this. Gaia-X aim to create standards, foster software community and facilitate the creation of data spaces. Therefore, Gaia-X focus on three outcomes: Architecture specification describe the functionality of Gaia-X and provide conformity criteria. Open-source software code to ensure an open implementation of federation service and further enable an open-source community. Instruments of compliance including method and tool for conformance testing and compliance of services. The Gaia-X organisational structure is built on three bodies: the Gaia-X Association, the national Gaia-X Hubs and the Gaia-X Community. Within these, there are various working group and committees. The exchange within the pillars, and towards other stakeholder (e.g., EU Commission, international initiatives) is ensured. The Gaia-X Association is an international non-profit association under Belgian Law (French: association internationale sans but lucrative, in short: AISBL). It aim to develop regulatory frameworks, ensure that necessary service are made available, consolidate, and facilitate the work and collaboration within the Gaia-X community, represent the member of Gaia-X and promote international cooperation. The Gaia-X Hubs act a the voice of user ecosystem at a national level. They develop ecosystems, bundle national initiatives, and provide a central contact point to interested party in their respective countries. All Gaia-X Hubs are in close exchange with each other to ensure international alignment about their activities, defining requirements, and identifying regulatory hurdles. The network of Gaia-X Hubs will support the growth of a dynamic ecosystem from a bottom-up approach, from a national level to a European and international level. Gaia-X will foster and support an open-source software community in which all contributor are welcome. The Gaia-X Community work together on a common platform based on work packages. Members and non-members collaborate side by side, from both the user and provider perspectives. In general, the term data space refers to a type of data relationship between trusted partners, with each applying the same high standard and rule to the storage and sharing of their data. An international team of more than 300 member and over 15 Hubs are working together to make Gaia-X possible. Established large corporation coexist with young start-ups. Numerous cloud solution provider collaborate with representative from a variety of industries, including manufacturing, finance, transportation, and mobility. Furthermore, participation is broad: state institutions, associations, and research institutes, in addition to the private sector, are involved in this large-scale project. This help to avoid the possibility of only solving very specific problem or developing solution in isolation. Gaia-X is open to new interested party to develop it further. Everyone can participate in the way that best suit their needs. For instance, they can contribute with their technical expertise, suggest new use case or actively and continuously participate in open working groups. Gaia-X is distinguished by it openness and transparency. Gaia-X remains open to welcome new European and cross-border participant and contributor in the future. Market participant within and outside Europe who share our goal of data sovereignty and data availability may also participate in Gaia-X. The European Commission contains additional information in this regard. In general, there are three way to get involved: Represent the project a a member, joining a community of over 300 member Contribute to the national Gaia-X Hubs, working hand in hand with your country coordinator Participate in the Gaia-X Community by attending it events, call and meetings, become a speaker or panellist, submit blog and articles, position podcasts and many more. Europe and it member state already run a number of initiative that lay the groundwork for Gaia-X. Codes of conduct, rules, standards, and community building are example of these. Gaia-X is not a greenfield project it will build on such existing result and activities. This openness to national and European initiative with similar objective a Gaia-X give the project a strong momentum for joint European cooperation. Building upon existing solution and their further development, we want to launch competitive offer from Europe out onto the world market. The project can be seen a a proposal addressed to Europe. The system is intended to be open and not restricted by national borders.. We want to pursue this path with partner from Europe and are in communication with other countries, the EU Commission and international company and organisations. Against this background, effort are already underway and an intensive dialogue with the Commission is taking place to align the European cloud federation and Gaia-X and make these a success a part of the European data strategy. In it data strategy, the Commission announced that it will foster synergy between the work on European cloud federation and Member States initiative such a Gaia-X. In addition, a large number of country have already joined Gaia-X and established a national Gaia-X Hubs. In parallel, the Association collaborates closely with further country in order to develop a thriving Gaia-X network across Europe. The Gaia-X Labelling is a set of automatable rule that enforce the same level of verified descriptive information for all entity in the Gaia-X Conceptual model, primarily Participants and Service Offerings. The Gaia-X Labelling result is a Verifiable Credential from a technical standpoint. The Gaia-X compliance can be obtained for a Self-Description file by submitting the file to an instance of the Gaia-X Compliance Service. On November 25, 2021, Gaia-X released it first Labelling Framework. Check back on for all version to-date. An ecosystem is an independent group of participant that directly or indirectly consume, produce, or provide services, such a data, storage, computing, network services, including combination of them. Further detail can be checked in the Gaia-X Architecture Document glossary. Please subscribe to the Gaia-X newsletter to stay up to date with the Gaia-X activities. In addition, future and potential new member can attend regular onboarding webinars to stay up to date. Please click to register for one of the upcoming events. More information is available on the Gaia-X website. The and section are equally worthwhile to be checked. If you have further questions, please reach out the Gaia-X team using the following . Visit As per our 5y plan 2023 is the Growth year, which mean extended market adoption. To do this we need to first operationalize the Gaia-X compliance service to make them available to the market and thus enable the demand for compliance by adopters: user asking for GX compliance service in their procurement and provider willing to submit their service description and be qualified against the Gaia-X criterion for compliance. Several. In 2021 the Definition year, we described Gaia-X in term of document and specification (notably the Architecture, the Policies and Rules, the Labels); also, we started the first project for developing the Federation Services (GXFS DE specification were defined) and finally we started the first lighthouse project, at the time Catena-X (federation for the creation of a common Automotive dataspace). In 2022 adoption year we had the objective to start developing the Gaia-X Framework (we evolved the specifications, we created the specification for the trust framework the core of Gaia-X, we had the first drop of the GXFS, we started developing the trust framework component through our SW lab, constituted in 2022, several (5) Hackathons, and developing the initial MVP of the Gaia-X compliance (2 api available to internal member since mid 2022: compliance and registry to initially play with it). Also, we started the first LHP on the infrastructure side of the X that is aimed to create a federated infrastructure to support the computing continuum, and we started multiple other LHP (8 at the moment and dozen in pipe). Gaia-X is an AISBL, a pre-competitive, not for profit and not a commercial offering. The AISBL governs the work to develop the Gaia-X standard, composed of a set of rule (defined in the PRD) and a technology framework (the so-called Gaia-X Framework) that is publicly available on our website. We also supported our member developing several projects, some in response to many EC and LM calls, and endorsing those project committing to the adoption of the Gaia-X standard to trigger the creation of the first Gaia-X services. All we developed so far is openly accessible and it comprises document and OSS. In the move to operationalization, the AISBL is thinking about the development and provisioning of service to support the business, including the provision of a Digital Clearing House (to get qualified), the development of an Academy and Certification program to provide technical support, directly or through partners. Ditto (see above). In addition, Gaia-X help and support the development of specific domain dataspace creation through several thematic working group dedicated to verticals, through the development of white paper on each vertical and the use case deriving from the creation of common dataspaces and the adoption of Gaia-X. These WG are open to member that have a unique chance to sit in the largest representation of all European player in each sector and grouping large and small enterprise to assemble the best of breed across all members. In addition, the Hubs constellation of Gaia-X capture need and opportunity across each region, with the support of all Government of the hosting state and creating the premise for synergy and multi-national project to create common dataspaces in each sector. Notably Automotive, Manufacturing, Agriculture, Mobility, Smart Cities, are amongst the many that already have consortium of partner developing real market solutions, each one grouping expert of the sector and the best representative in the industry to drive by competence the adoption and evolution of Gaia-X a a set of rule and technology. The Trust Framework implement one of the 3 pillar necessary to develop common data spaces, which are: Federation, Data Exchange, and Compliance. The TF support the measurement and objective evaluation of Compliance against a set of commonly agreed upon rules, thus enabling trust a a key element to adopt any digital service or data platform, without which no data economy can fly. The operationalization of the Gaia-X Framework is the subject of 2023, although an MVP is already available, and plan are in place to allow by end of Q4 (start Q1) the first qualification of compliance for service (notably for the early adopter represented by the LHP). Ditto The AISBL is a totally private foundation representing thus the voice of the market and not being subject to any standard of political body. The AISBL is not a commercial entity, so strictly speaking there are no business lines. As explained the purpose of the Association is to create the necessary premise to enable a market adoption of the Gaia-X standard, which is based on the member requirements, representing the voice of the market in asking what is necessary to achieve a necessary level of trust to adopt data platform required to move any sector to the digital era and the creation of product and service based on data. On the other side the AISBL is supporting the creation of project in all vertical through it WG and is undertaking now the move to operationalization, that will enable the market adoption of Gaia-X a said above. The LHP are the frontrunner demonstrating why Gaia-X is necessary to develop use case that otherwise and before could not be realized. LHP demonstrate how sharing data across multiple player in an ecosystem is the only way to improve existing process but most important change completely those process and creating unprecedented value product or added value service based on the insight given by own and others data. The lighthouse project can implement small or large dataspaces, in any context, and there can be many. We have a set of defined (13) criterion for eligibility of a LHP and evaluate new candidate through our process. The LHP also work in synergy sharing experience and starting later this year we aim to develop best practice and lesson learnt from all of them and make them available through documentation and dedicated event and showcase (the first being Day2 of this 2022 Summit). Yes of course. There wa no restructuring in May 2022 Keep it structural and not fall into question related to internal mgt staff reorganization (this is not relevant for the news and typical food for gossip): The association, like any organization, went through internal adjustments. Some were structural and started already in 2021 (restructuring of the Committees and WG organization necessary to tie WG to deliverables) and some were internal to the Mgt team staff a in any organization. They define their own scope, objective and plan to develop their contribution. The contribution and each WG is instrumental to achieve the overall picture of Gaia-X, i.e. to develop the functional specifications, technical specification and code constituting the Gaia-X framework. We have the same and bigger endorsement and support from government around Europe. 15 EU hub and relative government are sitting in our GovB. No. Hubs are independent but closely connected and synergetic with the central Association. Their reason to be is related to the capability of enabling the adoption of the Gaia-X standard within their regions, in collaboration and with the support of local governments, and leveraging the network of local member and also non-members interested in collaborating in Gaia-X initiatives. Hubs collect the local member to concretely identify business opportunity around specific and across verticals, within and across countries. They are crucial to the Gaia-X adoption. The DSBC is responsible to look after the business side of the shop. The DSBC ha evolved in time and is now focussed on 3 main area of responsibilities: Hubs & Verticals (to connect, scout and support for new initiative arising within the hub that can bring to market projects), Projects (to qualify and connect to existing and future LHP and project in general, ensuring the collection of specific business need and requirement and feeding them through the Gaia-X evolution) and DSBA (Data Space Business Alliance) a the alliance of Gaia-X, IDSA, FIWARE and BDVA aimed to create a single view in Europe around the concept of Dataspaces (DSBA having 3 main objectives: create a common view and process from inception to deployment to create a data space, create a convergent technical architecture leveraging on all existing asset from the four organizations, and creating a network of network leveraging the hub constellation of the 4 to multiply the opportunity for Gaia-X adoption in the market). The TC is the lead for all technical decision on the Gaia-X architecture and the Gaia-X technology framework. The TC also lead the SW Labs and look after the validation of functional requirements, transforming them into technical requirement and enabling their implementation into development of SW assets. The PORC, now renamed a PRLD (Policy Rules and Labelling Committee) wa in charge originally just for the PRD, but it scope wa extended at the beginning of 2022 to cover also Labelling and now Compliance through the Trust Framework. The PRLD defines the rule that are then to be implemented by the Gaia-X framework to achieve the maximum level of automated verification. In 20 months, (from March 2021 since the AISBL wa constituted and mgt wa appointed) the project ha reached a level of maturity, in both principles, requirement and code, that is a challenge under many aspects. None of these aspect are to be seen a obstacle but a necessary element of complexity. Amongst them the two main important are the need to accommodate for different view and expectation from the many different member and countries, including individual interests, priority and conflictual interests. Second the need to find the right skill to move from a Vision to a Product or service, that requires the contribution of engineering resource not always available from within the WG. And third the need to act within the scope of a non-competitive organization where there is an attention to not create competitive advantage for any specific member. These have been overcome thanks to the rule for participation and equal contribution by all member (as asseverated by DGCOMP), but the contribution of several external resource on the technical activity (including the GXFS projects, the SW Labs and now the involvement of market operator for the move to operationalization in the market of the compliance services), and relying on market project run independently by member consortium out of the governance of the AISBL but fully committed to adopt the Gaia-X standard and to deliver market results. Last but not least the AISBL ha always maintained a political agnostic position and ha been open to any member from any country from the beginning to ensure the solution is a good one to help EU compete in a market that is it nature global and cannot be won through protectionist approaches. The BoD is limited to EU company only by the statutes. Gaia-X is not forcing nor ensuring this, but the project adopting Gaia-X will be committed to develop concrete service in the market. This is the purpose of the initial LHP, front runner of the Gaia-X initiative, and the criterion for endorsing new ones. There is no such a magic recipe in the technology now, but this is not the purpose of Gaia-X. Nonetheless, if the question is related to the OSS that the AISBL is creating and making available, the answer is twofold: on one side the so called (see above) compulsory code (i.e. the one that will operate the Gaia-X compliance) will be run in protected and controlled node preventing tampering (so not open to modifications), whilst the so called toolbox code will be made available to be adopted a is or modified but it will not cause corruption of the compulsory code above. Therefore Gaia-X will provide for mechanism to trust the identity and credential of digital service used through an OSS implementation run in controlled nodes. We are not in control of Horizon calls, but we received and endorsed several proposal from our member responding to those call which, apparently more and more, are seeing Gaia-X a a convergent standard to refer to. Gaia-X wa born on the simple consideration that there is no single sector today not impacted by digitalization, and more specifically there is no sector that will not suffer or die in competition without the ability to regenerate or reinvent itself through the definition of new portfolio of offering based on data. Based on this consideration we understood that the dilemma is: are we in control or controlled by technology? And knowing the answer we dig into why the level of adoption of data infrastructure (or more generally cloud technology) is still so low. The answer is simple: we dont need a new technology or a new European champion of cloud, we need to convince people to use existing technology and to do that a substantial gap of trust must be filled. Thats why believe Gaia-X will have a pervasive impact, and not because it is European, but because there are no other similar initiative around the world today trying to translate the need for Digital Sovereignty into something concrete and not just wishful thinking or a mere hope that regulation will solve the problem. As explained above we are aiming to deliver the first version of our Digital Clearing House, which will allow, first to our LHP (front runners) and consequently to all, to become Gaia-X compliant. This will move the decision of adoption, from the AISBL to the Market, producing the snowball effect we hope and expect. None in particular and all of them. But for sure the one that will produce higher impact on the economy (industrial in general) and the one that will impact on area where trust is a human being expectation (health, financial, PS, etc.) can be considered a the most impactful. Policy maker are already defining regulation in the digital sector that is creating an increase in awareness on the topic. The purpose of the AISBL is not in advising or contributing to policy making, but we are doing two important and unique things: on one side we are representing the voice of the market with more than 350 member defining what they want from digital, and on the other side we are developing a framework, that also through technology will help verifying the compliance to those rules. The real challenge that we are facing, is the explanation increase in regulation (tech-reg) that run the risk not to be understood and implemented fast enough in existing services, thus leaving user and provider of technology in a limbo of uncertainty. What we believe at Gaia-X is that this entropy of regulation should be compensated by an inversion of paradigm, moving from tech-reg to reg-tech, that is using technology to verify compliance to those rules, otherwise subject to interpretation and subjective evaluations. The regulation by automation mantra is one of the driver of Gaia-X and at the core of the mechanism being implemented by the Trust Framework. Technology will never replace regulation, but a convergence of the two is necessary when human and law cannot provide the level of trust people search and cant find. Each project requires a story telling and time to be explained. This is the purpose of Summit day2 where the 8 LHP will be on stage talking about their experience and showing concrete deliverables. Then each sector, like Financial Services, Energy, Health and others, are continuing to develop first of all a common vision around how to build common dataspaces within and across country within those domain and these use case are incubator for business cases, which will then turn into projects. Healthcare, to give an example, ha collected more than 400 participant in their activity started beginning of 2022, Finance is collecting the largest bank in Europe to define model for Risk Management, KYC and Fraud Mgt, Tourism ha already one started project (Eona-X, focus on the travel side) and others starting together with the work driven by the Spanish hub focus on this sector with strong endorsement by Secretary of State Carme Artiga, and so on. As explained above, the hub are the go-to-market of Gaia-X, so their contribution is crucial and they are contributing developing use cases, business cases, incubating new project and in the end spinning out project that then become independent mechanism to create Gaia-X service in the market. Also, Hubs are crucial to help the central association reach in a capillary way the region and the vast community also of non-members of any size and type, acting a advocate of Gaia-X and identifying talent and potential new member that can contribute actively to the endeavour. The GovB meets, a per the GovB defined rules, twice a year in one of the state participating. Each local Gov interpedently appoints a participant to the GovB from their ministry. The GovB is defined a part of the statue of the AISBL a an element of steering and advise to take into account the States priority and ensure Gaia-X represent them all. Also, the GovB collect Gov rep that are appointed to be the reference for their local hub, thus creating a continuum between state priority in digital transition (notably the RRF but not only) and the concrete project proposal that can come from their hub to create a win-win approach. The GovB is by statue independent and not controlled or ruled by the AISBL, so they have autonomously defined their internal participation rules, and voted to appoint Alberto Paolomo (CDO or Spain) a their chairman for the period. Gaia-X Hubs are the central contact point for interested party in each country. They are not a body of the Association, but they may be viewed a grassroots supporter for the Gaia-X project. The role of Gaia-X Hubs is a crucial component of the Association a they constitute the Gaia-X think tank, where concrete case of implementation of Gaia-X data space are investigated, designed and implemented. Hubs are tightly connected to local government through the ministry devoted to the Digital Transformation programs. Hubs group together all member from a specific region, user and providers, and collaborate across different territory to ensure the creation of pan-European data spaces. None of the two: the AISBL decides, which is made of 3 committee (PRC; TC, DSBC) and 19 WG. Each WG take decision (define requirements, develop document etc) which are then approved by the relative Committee and ratified by the BoD. The Mgt team coordinate and provide overall strategy and operation management. As in any association there is no single authority for any decision but a consensual process that must represent all members. The rule for collaboration and their fairness and effectiveness of representation of the membership have been asseverated by the DG-COMP in 2021 a a proof. All these name are already supporting the AISBL participating, a active members, in the AISBL activity and several working groups. Some of these, like Amadeus and Airbus, are in addition already active in LHP or developing new project ideas. Google, Amazon or others are invited and have equal opportunity to define projects, but this is up to them to partner with or become partner of existing consortium of member willing to run a project. The AISBL is not driving any of the project (because a said we are not commercial and pre-competitive) but we depend on our member willing to adhere to the Gaia-X standard through the implementation of real service in the market, and this can only happen through real project or through the independent decision of a member (or non-member) to apply to compliance and subscribe to the catalogue of Gaia-X compliant service available in the market. This is what we will show at the summit a an initial step and, a explained above, will be the focus of Q4 onward through 2023, the year of Growth. No. Gaia-X AISBL endorse any project willing to be Gaia-X compliant and committing to the development of Gaia-X compliant solution in the market. Endorsement occurs through an analysis of the project objective and proposed solution and, for the LHP, going through some more specific rule a defined above. Yes, there are 13 criterion defined and evaluated by the DSBC. Any project can candidate to become a LHP provided is run by members, it complies to those criterion (which fundamentally are the concrete business outcome exist for that project, the scalability of it, the mandatory commitment to comply and adhere to the evolution of the Gaia-X framework, and the constitution of a consortium to operate the service in the market no R&D). The members. They participate in the WG, the WG submit their decision to the Committees and the BoD ratifies those decisions. The Mgt provide guidance, vision and strategy, and support the organization and the member in their operations. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Use case Use Cases Introducing Gaia-X Voices: Use Case Testimonials! Discover how business are leveraging Gaia-X technology to transform industries. We invite all member to share their success stories, which shape the future! Below you can download the questionnaire, which cover the following areas: Introduction: Share your business and industry. Context & Challenge: Explore the problem addressed and industry landscapes. Solution Benefits: Learn about implemented solution and technology. Implementation: Discover integration detail and milestones. Benefits & Impact: See measurable benefit and positive impacts. Added Value through Gaia-X: Learn how Gaia-X brings unique value. Use case applicability: Explore applicability across sectors. Next steps: Share anticipated developments. Join u in shaping the future! 90 Use case 10 Sectors 7 Countries Gaia-X will ultimately allow access to a product and service portfolio from a variety of cloud providers. Transparency regarding the product and service given is of paramount importance. As a result, each user can select the solution that best meet his or her requirements. The user interface is at the heart of Gaia-X development, supporting the evolution of data spaces. Ultimately, user retain the control over their data. This mean that each user and business can choose where their data is stored, who can handle it, and for what purpose it is used. They can also use the data infrastructure to access data pool and AI applications. Data can be shared across businesses, linked to other data, processed, and used to generate value. This encourages innovation, allows for the usage of synergies, and the development of new business models. Many of the sector-specific use case submitted to the Gaia-X Hubs highlight the benefit of data infrastructure. The Gaia-X Hubs mission is to continuously explore, develop, and execute novel use case that demonstrate the necessity for and value of the sovereign data infrastructure. Use case also aid in the identification of sector-specific and cross-sectoral requirements. These are then integrated in the Gaia-X development. Wishing to learn more about our use cases, please search below by sector and country. SectorFilter - AllAgricultureEducation & SkillsEnergyFinanceGeoinformationHealthIndustry 4.0/ SMEMobilityPublic SectorSmart LivingCountryFilter - AllBelgiumFranceGermanyAustriaNetherlandsSpainSwitzerland High-quality Gastric Cancer & lesion data set accessble by researcher everywhere, allow for further clinical research, new, innovative diagnostic methods, better risk assessment and preventive measures. A european platform that help to identify risk with AI through surgical video and data storage Intelligent planning of road maintenance measure in Southern Tyrol The Smart factory KL Vision 2025 - 'Production Level 4': Cross-Factory and Cross-Company Production a a showcase. Data Spaces for the Statutory Health Insurance Companies for Data Analysis. From extracting skill from raw data to skill recognition Aggregating relevant datasets to foster AI in education and adaptive services. A more holistic view on learner data in a school-extra school continuum. Technical brick for a Trust Interoperable Framework: consent and identity management, smart contracts, data interoperability and exchange management. Do you want to submit a use case? Get in touch today! Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation What we are Gaia-X is an initiative that develops, based on European values, a digital governance that can be applied to any existing cloud/ edge technology stack to obtain transparency, controllability, portability and interoperability across data and services. Gaia-X is not a market operator, nor will it operate directly or exclusively any of the service required by the governance. Why we do it The future of our economy is driven by digital economy, a new way to build value on top of the existing physical ecosystem, products, and services, using data. This is achieved through the collection and exchange of data across the multiple participant and organisation in the value chain. The exchange of data across organisation is currently constrained by proprietary, non-transparent, non-interoperable technology that do not provide the necessary level of trust. Our concept of sovereignty translates into the autonomy and self-determination user need to operate their technology choices. Gaia-X enables and boost the creation of Data Spaces through trusted platform that comply with common rules, allowing user and provider to trust each other on an objective technological basis, to safely and freely share and exchange data across multiple actors. 1800 Contributors 300 Members 1 Goal Latest news April 22, 2024 Munich, 22 April 2024 Industry and business are in the midst of radical change: sustainability, resilience and securin... April 9, 2024 Gaia-X is delighted to announce the appointment of Alberto Palomoas the new Chief Strategy Officer, enhancing the manag... March 19, 2024 Brussels, Belgium, 19 March 2024 The Market-X Conference & Expo, organised in partnership with the Gaia-X Hub Germ... March 15, 2024 The sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X Hub France in Paris brought together more than 200 participants, from indu... March 7, 2024 In an era where data is not just an asset but the cornerstone of innovation and strategic decision-making, The Data Spac... March 7, 2024 Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction Yo... Read more about our latest news and development Use Cases High-quality Gastric Cancer & lesion data set accessble by researcher everywhere, allow for further clinical research, new, innovative diagnostic methods, better risk assessment and preventive measures. A european platform that help to identify risk with AI through surgical video and data storage Intelligent planning of road maintenance measure in Southern Tyrol Featured Events May 23, 2024 Contributors "Gaia-X, a an association, ha achieved a lot over the last two year and is, now, able to deliver a consistent Trust and Federation framework. Moreover, it now find itself at a pivotal juncture, poised to make a significant impact in the Cloud market. I am delighted to be involved in addressing the forthcoming challenge a Chairwoman of the organisation and contributing to Gaia-X's ongoing journey towards operational reality."Chairwoman of the Gaia-X's BoD & Executive Vice President Digital and Information Management at Airbus "To enable user to retain control over their data, we call for European data sovereignty especially over production and industrial data. By participating in Gaia-X, I am doing my part to support this valuable, forward-looking initiative."Harald A. Summa, Gaia-X AISBL Board of Directors, DE-CIX "A federated data infrastructure and horizontal data exchange are crucial for the European recovery and renewal. The future is built together and requires joint activity - therefore I am delighted to participate in Gaia-X."Lars Albck, Gaia-X Hub Finland, Vastuu Group "It is great to be involved in such a unique initiative that will change the way we handle our data fundamentally. The Federation Services, a foundation of the federated data infrastructure, will enable u to connect in an interoperable and legally compliant way."Emma Wehrwein, Gaia-X Federation Services, eco e.V. Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation What is Gaia-X What is Gaia-X It enables a federated and secure data infrastructure, whereby data are shared, with user retaining control over their data access and usage. It enables the creation of link between many cloud service provider in a wider, transparent and fair ecosystem to drive the European Data economy of tomorrow. Gaia-X is A non-profit association in which it member define the Gaia-X architecture & rule Gaia-X make and support others to make open source implementation of it specification A qualification authority for the Gaia-X Label, including the Basic Conformity Gaia-X is Not A formal standardisation body A SW or HW product or cloud platform A runtime implementation of any Gaia-X service Gaia-X vs. Association Gaia-X project is driven by the Association Gaia-X architecture is developed by the Association member Gaia-X service will not be operated by the Association Vision & Mission Vision: Enable trusted decentralised digital ecosystems. Mission: Creating the de facto standard aligned with EU value by developing a set of policies, rules, specification and a verification framework. Please check the vision strategy publication Data Spaces: What are they? The term data space refers to a type of data relationship between trusted partner who adhere to the same high level standard and guideline in relation to data storage and sharing within one or many . A critical aspect of the data space notion is that data are not stored centrally, but rather at the source. Thus, they are only transferred through semantic interoperability a necessary A data space is the sum of all it participants, which may be data providers, user and intermediaries. Data space can be nested and overlapping. For instance, a data provider can participate in several data space all at once. Each Data Space provides specific data. Thereby, it form a solid ground for one or many ecosystems. The software required to implement data space run on cloud/edge cloud infrastructures. Data space objective and deliverable within Gaia-X The main objective of Gaia-X is to create the condition for an outburst of data within the European market. Key to this is the creation of data spaces, which are the digital representation of existing physical or natural or industrial or social ecosystems. In a data space, several actor belonging to the same value chain (all supplier and oem in a supply chain, all public and private transportation in a smart city, all hospital and laboratory in a healthcare, and so forth) federate each other to exchange data. Given the data space create service and insight that can only be achieved through the federation of the multiple actors, every single actor earns a value in participating to the federation that it could not achieve using it data only. Gaia-X aim to develop data space project to create an economy of data in several domains, from private to public sector. Through data space projects, Gaia-X will be developed in the market and Gaia-X service will be made available through marketplace restricted to the federation participant or open to the outside of the federation. The Gaia-X Association enables the creation of data space through the work of the regional hubs. Each hub ha the objective to focus on it regional strategic data spaces, and develop concrete business case creating consortium of member company around them. Gaia-X enabled data space allow for: scaling individual solution to address new customer extending existing solution with new value proposition combine existing solution to enable collaboration in ecosystems. Data space can be industry-specific or cross-industries, they can involve multiple player within a territory or across territories, and provide for the only way to reduce physical barriers, reduce time to market, leverage the distributed intelligence and create additional value for all, large and small players, user and provider of technology. Through data space creation, Europe can leverage the most accessible and highest quality raw material that can reinforce our economy by winning the battle of competitivity in the digital era: high quality data. From automotive to healthcare, agriculture to education, transportation, energy or finance, the European processes, legislation, and industrial ecosystem feature by far the highest complexity and quality, and therefore are the way to win the battle to competitivity in the creation of high quality digital product and services. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Vision & Mission Vision & Mission Vision Enable trusted decentralised digital ecosystem Mission Creating the de facto standard aligned with EU value by developing a set of policies, rules, specification and a verification framework Please check the vision strategy publication Who is behind Gaia-X? Representatives from business, politics, academia, research, technology, policy, government, and science from Europe and beyond collaborate to build a federated and secure data infrastructure ecosystem. Companies and citizen collect and exchange data, ultimately retaining full control: deciding where to store and what happens with their data. The Association defines the architecture, policy and rules, labelling, and compliance requirements, fully engaging and representing over 300 member all taking up specific task and truly promoting international cooperation. For instance, the Gaia-X Hubs act a the voice of user ecosystem on a national level. Their main objective are to bundle national initiatives, develop ecosystems, and provide a central point of contact to interested party in their respective countries. The demand in practice Today, many small and medium-sized business build individual interface for data exchange and interoperability solution with each individual customer on a regular basis. This is time-consuming and costly. Gaia-X will provide common data-exchange mechanism that adhere to the common need of trust. Todays data is geographically dispersed and difficult to move in a single location. Furthermore, many user do not want or are unable to move from where they are, but the current Cloud offering is dominated by a few player offering a hyper-verticalised model. With Gaia-X, a federation of interoperable cloud node will be able to provide the critical mass and geographical distribution required to elaborate data, while minimising transport. Nowadays, commercial leading Digital Platforms use proprietary, non-interoperable technology that concern and make user reluctant in adoption. Gaia-X will provide mechanism to verify the real level of interoperability. Cloud adoption is now at 26% in Europe. This implies that the majority of our data and apps are still inaccessible and unexchangeable. Gaia-X will develop a framework allowing people to make informed decisionswhen exchanging data,based on European values. Gaia-X will provide a genuine alternative by reducing the barrier to cloud adoption associated with a lack of confidence and freedom of choice; and it will speed the creation of innovative solution in a secure and trusted environment for a thriving European digital economy. Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Gaia-X deliverable Gaia-X deliverable Gaia-X foster data exchange and facilitates interoperability between data spaces. To that intent, Gaia-X focus on three deliverables: Specifications, Code and Label. Specifications The specification describe how Gaia-X work in term of functional and technical requirements. The Gaia-X Working Groups cover topic such a and not limited to: Data portability, Data consent for processing, Data transaction traceability Credential management, Policy negotiation, Identities Federated catalogue, catalogue synchronisation, Agent and Wallet, Entity-Relation model, Compliance schema model Code The above specification are then translated into source code by our community. All the software development done by Gaia-X Association are open-source, and the association welcome member and non-members to use and contribute to those software developments. Contributions can be made directly in gitlab, and getting in touch with the os community can be done through the communication channel listed here: The full set of open-source project developed by and for Gaia-X association is available on the page. It includes the development and the Federation Services. The main license are the Apache-2.0 or the EPL-2.0 and the source code is hosted on Labels In order to operationalise service and build truly connected and interoperable dataspaces, Gaia-X Association develops governance based on European values. This governance verifies the compliance of service according to the Gaia-X Label and let external authority (Governmental, Industrial Specific, Standardisation Bodies, etc.) the ability to extend and define domain specific labels. The ecosystem of label owner and issuer to be produced, will make the Gaia-X Label an easy and innovative way to seek, find and use service implicitly compliant to any specific need without having to study in detail norms, regulations, and complex compliance rules. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Who we are Who we are This section provides a snapshot of the organisational structure of Gaia-X, including the Association, and it management board, the national hub and the community a a whole. Association Gaia-X represents the core of the organisation. It wa founded to develop the technical framework and the Gaia-X Trust Framework. Its members, are either company with a provider or user background of data infrastructure, IT-start-ups, research institution or business association that are aligning with Gaia-X to federate cloud service within the existing cloud infrastructures. Ecosystems Gaia-X Ecosystems support the creation and development of data space and projects, aiming to share data space knowledge; collect cross-country use-cases and enable member to network, collaborate and identify open standard related to specific domains. Hubs The Hubs are the national and central contact point and grass root supporter of Gaia-X in each country. They have an independent status and are not a body of the Association, but they work together to create use cases, business value, create data space and engage new member to the Association. Community The open-source Gaia-X Community comprises the overall Gaia-X network. On the basis of working groups, user and provider work hand in hand to deliver the milestone of Gaia-X: the architecture, the labelling, the policy rule and the trust framework. Everyone is welcome to join the Community to share their knowledge, expertise and advice through a series of meetings, hackathons, tech dives, conferences, articles, magazines, and podcasts to name a few all of which present the mean to drive the community forward. Lighthouse Projects These project aim to create a data exchange platform built on transparency, trust, and openness, targeting multiple industries, such a Agriculture, Mobility and Manufacturing, to name a few. These project will help u bring and create a coherent data space of sharing data, helping to leverage Gaia-Xs use case to build the current lighthouse pipeline and build a comprehensive pipeline of future lighthouse projects. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Association Association Who are we? The Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL represents the core of the organisational structure. It is an international non-profit association under Belgian law (French: association internationale sans but lucratif, shortened to AISBL). It wa founded to develop the technical framework and operate the Gaia-X Federation services. Officially, the Association wa founded by 22 company and organisation in January 2021. Until today, over 300 member have joined and more are welcome. Its member are committed to upholding the value of data protection, transparency, openness, security, and respect for data rights. They are either company with a provider or user background of data infrastructures, IT-start-ups, research institution or business associations. The Association ha no business interest of it own. It will develop federation cloud service within the existing cloud infrastructures. To achieve this and to ensure an open and transparent character the Association facilitates the development of an open software infrastructure. The Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL represents the core of the organisational structure. It is an international non-profit association under Belgian law (French: association internationale sans but lucratif, shortened to AISBL). It wa founded to develop the technical framework and operate the Gaia-X Federation services. Officially, the Association wa founded by 22 company and organisation in January 2021. Until today, over 340 member have joined and more are welcome. Its member are committed to upholding the value of data protection, transparency, openness, security, and respect for data rights. They are either company with a provider or user background of data infrastructures, IT-start-ups, research institution or business associations. The Association ha no business interest of it own. It will develop federation cloud service within the existing cloud infrastructures. To achieve this and to ensure an open and transparent character the Association facilitates the development of an open software infrastructure. Organisational structure The Gaia-X Associations General Assembly is composed of all of it members. The General Assembly ha complete authority to carry out the objective of the Gaia-X Association. The decides on important matter regarding the Gaia-X Association. It is headed by a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The Management Board manages the daily activity of the Gaia-X Association. The Management Board is composed of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Chief Operating Officer (COO), the Chief Strategy Officer (CSO), the Chief Technical Officer (CTO), the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and the Digital Communications Director. Who is who (see profiles) Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ulrich is a reputed executive in the IT sector, formerly Vice President and leader of the Manufacturing and Industrie 4.0 System Integration business at Atos in Germany. He is also the founder and member of the Board of the International Data Spaces Association in Germany and served 16 year on the Board of the Prostep IVIP organization until April 2018. After an apprenticeship a a toolmaker at Hella KG, he studied Mechanical Engineering at the University of Paderborn. In his career, Ahle held several position a a development engineer, Director of PLM services, sale director and Vice President. He ha been part of Nixdorf a Computer AG, Siemens and Atos. Since January 2017 Ulrich Ahle ha been Chief Executive Officer of the FIWARE Foundation headquartered in Berlin, Germany PA to the CEO and CTO Kateryna Rybalchenko is the new PA to the CEO and CTO of Gaia-X . She ha a rich experience in various fields, including Horeca and personal assistance. She hold a Master Degree in Marketing in Luxury Tourism from Les Roches International School of Hotel Management in Marbella For 5 year she worked in international and multicultural context in the field of Horeca, providing a high level of customer service, staff management, quality control and organisation of various events. For 1.5 year she worked a a personal assistant to the Commercial Director of a big manufacturing company, providing daily support in finding solution in accordance with standard and protocols. Her role wa to work directly on strategic planning, managing action plan and ensuring operational coordination. Working with selected official (managing agendas, drafting minutes, official letter or messages) with local or regional organisation and association allowed her to develop, with the opportunity to play a key role in identifying, analysing and evaluating organisational needs. She speaks English, French, Ukrainian and Russian. Alberto Palomo Chief Strategy Officer Originally from Madrid, he obtained a PhD in Mathematical Physics, prior to working at an R+D lab in Canada developing numerical simulation for artificial neural networks. Alberto then spent the following 5 year coordinating the technical development of Data Science application for a large electric utility company in the USA. In 2021, he wa appointed Chief Data Officerfor the Government of Spain, a novel technopolitical role aimed at prescribing data innovation policy, more so than the management of datasets. Under his lead, theclosely followed the innovative development around European cloud and data, and with that assembled an architectural and governance model for the deployment of data space in Spain. Nationally, they also coordinated several WGs across Spanish ministries, federal agency and industrial stakeholders, a well a promoted a series ofnormalisation standard for data management and governance. Pierre Gronlier Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Pierre is the CTO of Gaia-X. He ha been working for the last 12 year in the IT industry with a particular interest on operationalising and scaling system in the field of real-time communication and cloud services. With an academic background in real-time embedded system and applied mathematics in signal processing and machine learning, he started a a research engineer in video compression before joining Skype and Microsoft. He then joined OVHcloud a a cloud solution architect, advising and helping key account with their IT resource architecture and consumption. He participated in the development of the first Gaia-X prototypes. Giuditta Del Buono Technical Product Manager Giuditta is the Technical Product Manager of Gaia-X. She support the definition of Gaia-X Functional Specification by the member of the Association, in the context of the overall Gaia-X release strategy. Previously, she wa in charge of the management of the Gaia-X Committees and Working Groups. She contributed to Gaia-X from the very beginning, by participating in Gaia-X Working Groups for the Italian IaaS provider Netalia, where she wa also responsible for analysing regulatory rules, guidelines, and industry standards. She hold a degree in Chemical Engineering and ha more than ten year of experience in the innovation & technology transfer sector, where she carried out research activity and contributed to the implementation of scouting and acceleration program addressed to high-tech startups. Alexis Deprez Full-stack Developer Alexis is a full-stack developer within the CTO team. He hold an engineering degree in computer science and information system with experience in public and private research, industry, machine learning, web development, and startups. Alexis goal is to push the boundary of what is possible by leveraging it expertise in diverse technologies. Ewann Gavard Software developer Ewann is one of the developer in the Gaia-x CTO Team. He help implement the specification created by the Working Groups to ensure their viability and propose new specification or change through Gaia-X Lab. Hes been working a a professional software developer since 2013, mainly in the North of France before joining Gaia-X beginning of 2023. He worked in big retail company a well a in startup and emerging companies. He worked mainly a a full-stack developer, but also a the technical leader and backend lead developer. He also love being able to follow the software lifecycle, from business need to production deployment and maintenance. Yassir Sellami Back-end Software Developer Yassir work in cooperation with the CTO Office a a Software Developer. His goal is to bring my technical expertise a a software developer in all aspect of a software engineering lifecycle. Yassir ha been working lately in the e-commerce and retail industry and is very excited to work on an ambitious and meaningful project Gaia-X. Its essential for him to constantly learn and broaden perspective concerning computer science to always have a healthy challenge at hand. Yassir speaks English, French and Arabic and ha a beginner level of Japanese. Arthur Sore Software Developer Arthur Sore serf a a Software Developer within the CTO team. He is a professional developer since 2014. His previous role ranged from embedded development in the aerospace industry, to full-stack web development. He also ha an experience in web3 technologies. Strongly committed to principle such a privacy, sovereignty, and decentralization, he is enthusiastic about contributing to Gaia-X, which he find to be an exciting and meaningful initiative. Julien Vanwambeke Functional Architect Julien is a functional architect within Gaia-X CTO Team helping the Working Groups to go through their deliverable and also working on Gaia-X technical publications. Previously, and after a Masters Degree of Science at Ecole Centrale in Lille, France, he wa mainly involved in retail company a an enterprise architect or a programme manager on subject such a last mile deliveries, marketing, customer relationships, or sales. In his spare time, he like running, playing board game and hiking. He speaks French and English and ha intermediate knowledge of Spanish and German. Erwan Favry Infrastructure Architect Born with an ms-dos computer in his hands, Erwan ha been passionate about computer all his life. Which is why he decided to dedicate his work to them. Vincent Kelleher Software Engineer Vincent recently joined the CTO Team a a Software Engineer at the end of 2023. Bringing over a decade of diverse experience in software engineering across various sectors, including public organizations, power-grid management, entertainment, and retail, Vincent thrives on embracing new challenges. His passion extends beyond the professional realm, a he actively engages in side project at home. Vincent is a firm believer in the strength of polyglot development to achieve the highest performance and quality standard using state-of-the-art solutions. His commitment to innovation is reflected in his advocacy for interoperability and decentralization. As a dual citizen of France and Ireland, Vincent is fluent in both French and English, providing him with a multicultural perspective. Roland Fadrany Chief Operating Officer (COO) Roland is the COO of Gaia-X from May 2022 onwards. He establishes effective policies, process and organization that promote the Gaia-X vision and mission. With over 20 year of international management and consulting experience in the IT industry, he brings strong leadership and digitalisation knowledge to the team. He ha led a global service line, successfully delivered complex, critical program and managed multinational development-, delivery- and partner organisation at company like EDS, HP, A1 Telekom Austria, Microsoft and Detecon. Roland oversaw comprehensive innovation and transformation initiative in various industry in Europe and the USA. He hold a master degree in Engineering Management from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, TX. He speaks English and German and life in Vienna. Irene Cicmen VP Compliance Irene ha been a compliance expert for the past 12 years, with a strong legal background. She worked in Finance, Insurance, Distribution, Industry, and Luxury industry. She supported a wide range of company such a MetLife, Saint Laurent, Balenciaga, and Volkswagen. She managed different kind of project implying the analysis of the GDPR, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering regulations. She joined Gaia-X on 11 December 2023. Victor de Vries Junior Community Manager Victor is Junior Community Manager at Gaia-X. Driving our community building activities; he lead the coordination of Gaia-X ecosystem and support the Gaia-X Data Spaces Business Committee. He also support the implementation of the Gaia-X Endorsement Programme. Prior to Gaia-X, Victor worked for an international network of public social service in policy, membership, and project management. He also worked at a European Commission funding programme supporting start-ups and SMEs to bring deep tech innovation to the market. He hold a Masters degree in European Studies. He speaks English, Dutch, French, and is learning Spanish. Przemek Halub Program Manager Przemek is the Program Manager of Gaia-X. He ha 15+ year of experience in project management and ha led multidisciplinary team across service delivery, presales, and software development areas. His main duty are: Definition; planning; monitoring and control of program; program requirements; milestones; risk planning and documentation; program reporting; coordination and support of Gaia-X Hubs in relation to their project activities. Prior to this role Przemek ha spent 5 year at Atos and wa assigned to the Siemens Account. He managed large global IT presales program in the area of digital transformation, digital workplace, application management and could. Previously Przemek led project in R&D (technology transfer area) and the banking industry (management and implementation of new process for stock exchange in Singapore and Asia-Pacific region). He is certified in Agile Project Management (Agile PM) and is a project management graduate and a scholarship holder from the University of Stanford. Petra Makovec Operations Manager Petra is the Operations Manager of the Gaia-X COO office. She ha 20 year experience in Organisational Development, Portfolio Management and Program Management. Since 2009 she is running her own company delivering various Transformation Projects for client in different Industries. The last three year she wa managing contractor on pharmaceutical and chemical construction Projects in Germany. She wa responsible to ensure the quality and in time production of the deliverable by setting up clear working procedures, supporting the team in achieving the milestones, assuring good communication and relationship within a multi-company environment. She is known for her solution-driven, results-oriented and agile work-methods. She speaks German and English. Marga Martn Snchez Program Manager Marga is a Program Manager of the Gaia-X Association. She is responsible for the overall management of interdependent programme and support the COO organization. Currently, she manages and drive the DSSC- Data Spaces Support Center on behalf of Gaia-X. With over 15 year of international innovation and business management experience in the ICT and security sectors, she brings her knowledge to the Gaia-X team. She is also an independent expert since 2013 for the European Commission in various Directorates and since 2020 she became an external advisor for the international governmental network EUREKA. She ha also participated a a business mentor in large EU initiative to support organization and SMEs to scale-up innovative solution and defining route to market. Alessandra Perna Senior Market Adoption Manager Alessandra Perna is Senior Market Adoption Manager at Gaia-X. She ha joined Gaia-X since it beginning, heading the coordination of Gaia-X communities, including Gaia-X Hubs and industry ecosystems. She lead Gaia-X Endorsement Program, supporting project and business initiative to advance Gaia-X adoption in the market. She also oversees the Gaia-X Data Spaces Business Committee and manages the operation of the Data Spaces Business Alliance. Alessandra previously worked on program management in International Associations of different sectors. She hold a degree cum laude in Philosophy, a master degree cum laude in Neuroethics and a Masters in European Project Management. She speaks English, Italian and French and ha a beginner level of Hungarian. Frederik Tengg Release Manager Frederik is an impact-driven entrepreneur and manager from Austria. He want to make a difference, develop and change thing for the better. He ha 15+ year of experience in supply chain and process optimization. He founded a successful start-up for SaaS solution supporting construction processes. Frederiks holistic approach to data-driven business models, business process and business development distinguishes him together with his cross-industry background and network. He hold a master in business administration and gained international experience in France, China, the US and throughout his career in more than 10 European countries. Frederik life together with his wife and their 3 daughter in the suburb of the beautiful city of Vienna/Austria. As the Release Manager, he is responsible for the operationalization of the Gaia-X product from a process, business and organizational point of view. Alberto Curatolo Chief Financial Officer Alberto lead the Financial, Legal and HR department for Gaia-X. He hold a Masters Degree in International and Diplomatic Sciences from Bologna University and a Masters in European Law and Economics from Sorbonne University. He ha been working a a Project Manager in the social economy sector, also responsible for corporate, legal and financial matters. During his year a a Legal Officer and Public Procurement Correspondent at the European Commission, he acquired an extensive experience in all legal and financial aspect of EC-funded project and public procurements. As Financial Director at the European Organisation for Security (EOS), he led the company financial department, the EU Project Management Team and the HR department. During his career, he ha also supported the creation of several AISBLs in Brussels. He speaks English, French, Italian, and Spanish. Iker Sanz Members Relations Officer Iker is the Members Relations Officer in the Financial Department of Gaia-X. He hold professional experience a a sale manager in the Banking sector, apart from working in different Investments Funds and in International Associations. Throughout the years, Ikers professional day-to-day ha been entirely related to what he is most passionate about, people and finance. Outside of Gaia-X, he like doing sports, dancing and cooking. He speaks Spanish, Basque, and English. He also ha intermediate knowledge of French and Portuguese. Amadou Souare Finance and Administration Officer Amadou serf a the Finance and Administrative Officer at Gaia-X, where he oversees daily financial operation and handle administrative responsibility for the association. With a bachelor degree in accounting and finance, He manages financial task such a budgeting, financial reporting, expense management, and coordination with external stakeholder including auditor and tax authorities. Outside of work, Amadou enjoys traveling and his most memorable trip wa his visit to Canada in the summer of 2022. Travelling offer him the opportunity to explore different cultures, broaden his horizons, and gain new perspectives. Cosmina Gantner Digital Communications Director Cosmina is the Digital Comms Director of Gaia-X. She support the 360 communication effort of Gaia-X, mainly responsible for digital communications, website management and social media. Previously, Cosmina managed the communication strategy and medium relation for a Brussels based organisation in the Social Policy field. Prior to that, she wa responsible for event communication in the field of Research and Innovation in the European Parliament, including the European Innovation Summit and the EU Top 50 Startups Competition. Cosmina hold a MA in Visual Communication & Advertising and a BA in Communications and Public Relations awarded by the West University of Timisoara, Romania. She speaks English and Romanian and ha an intermediate understanding of French. Anna Busdraghi External Dissemination and Public Affairs Manager I support Gaia-Xs advocacy and communication activity with a focus on the Data Spaces Support Centre. With a background in public affair and communication, I have over four year of experience with the European Commission (TRADE and DIGIT), and 2 in the private sector, coordinating IT and trade promotion projects. I speak English, Italian, and Chinese and a bit of French. Jodie Emery Internal Communications Officer Jodie work within our internal communication team. Previously she ha worked for various international organization in the UK and Australia, in both internal and external communication roles. Most recently, she worked for an international law firm in London a an internal communication executive, working closely with the board of director to craft strategic communications. Jodie ha a BA in English from Royal Holloway, University of London. In her spare time, Jodie enjoys reading, going to galleries, and travelling. She speaks English and a little Dutch. Alexandra Simionca Events and Communications Manager Alexandra is the Events and Communications Manager of Gaia-X. Prior to joining Gaia-X, Alexandra worked a a Communications Coordinator for a Brussels-based association promoting the European biotechnology industry. She wa responsible for all internal and external communication and wa the driving force behind all the events. Prior to that, she wa responsible for the organisation of several conference in the European Parliament, like the European Innovation Summit and the AI & Big Data for Innovation Summit. In her spare time, Alexandra enjoys hiking, cycling and growing house plants. She speaks English, French and Romanian. Thomas Stevens Digital Media Manager Thomas is the Digital Media Manager of Gaia-X. Prior to joining Gaia-X, Thomas worked a a Communications officer for an NGO that aim to advance the exchange of knowledge in European public social service and ha experience a a project manager for an NGO involved in European youth work. His interest in communication started when he wa enrolled in an internship for a research centre promoting European defence cooperation and ha grown ever since. Thomas hold an MA in International Politics from Ghent University, Belgium, and a BA in Social Cultural Work from the University of Leuven, Belgium. Outside Gaia-X, Thomas enjoys going for a run in Ghent or, weather permitting, soaring the sky of the Belgian Ardennes with his paraglider. He speaks English and Dutch (Flemish), while he ha an intermediate knowledge of French. Krzysztof Lechowski Senior Digital Media Officer Krzysztof work in Gaia-Xs communication team a a content writer and graphic designer. Prior to joining Gaia-X, Krzysztof worked at the Chancellery of the Senate in Poland and most recently volunteered at the Italian Red Cross during the COVID-19 pandemic. Krzysztof is a graduate of the University of Southern Denmark, Charles University in Prague and the University of Bialystok. Outside of Gaia-X, Krzysztof like to relax by cooking, reading and playing volleyball. He speaks English, and Polish and he ha intermediate knowledge of French and Italian. Committees & Working Groups Data Spaces Business Committee (DSBC) The Data Space Business Committee is driven by a business ecosystem and strives to proactively support the creation of Data Spaces by third party across Europe and beyond. The DSBC collect and prioritises economic, functional, operational and legal requirement that facilitate seamless collaboration and interconnection between Data Spaces, Lighthouse Projects and Hubs. The DSBC support the link with and . Member Lead and Management Lead: Thomas Hahn (Siemens AG), Ulrich Ahle (Gaia-X CEO) For detailed information about the Ecosystems please visit the corresponding page . Policy Rules Committee (PRC) The Policy Rules Committee (PRC) aim to translate the of the Gaia-X initiative, e.g., transparency, data protection, cyber security, portability, and openness, into High-Level Objectives to safeguard the added value of the Gaia-X ecosystem. Furthermore, the PRC ha the role to monitor, integrate and define the relationship with EU regulation and external standards. Specifically, the Committee guide and delivers the , prepared by the WG Compliance, and the Gaia-X Policy Rules and Labelling Document (PRLD), resulting from the merger of the and the , prepared by the Policy Rules Document and Labels & Qualification WGs. Member Lead and Management Lead: Ulrich Eichhorn (VW AG), Roland Fadrany (Gaia-X COO) Technical Committee (TC) The Technical Committee defines and implement the technological vision of Gaia-X. It plans, develops, and is accountable for the Gaia-X technology roadmap and it contributors. It further communicates the Gaia-X technological vision and it related objective to establish trust and credibility with member and third parties. The input to define the technology roadmap are represented by the high-level objective of Gaia-X and by the requirement collected from other Committees and members. The current main deliverable of the TC are the Gaia-X Architecture Document, drafted by the WG Architecture, the Gaia-X technical specification and related reference implementation that the WG Federation Services is responsible for, and the set of common service characteristic schema and Service Taxonomy, which are delivered by the WG Service Characteristics. Member Lead and Management Lead: Klaus Ottradovetz (Eviden/ATOS), Pierre Gronlier (Gaia-X CTO) Working Groups The group draft the, where the founding concept to establish the Gaia-X Ecosystem are described. The Architecture Document focus on conceptual modelling and key consideration of an operating model, integrating the Providers, Consumers and Services needed for their interaction, and is agnostic regarding technology and vendor. The document reflects the evolution of technical and business functional requirement and provides a reference for the Gaia-X Federation Services The sub-WG under the Architecture WG is the sub-WG Service Composition owning the Service Composition model inside the Architecture Document. Lead and Vice-Lead: Klaus Ottradovetz (ATOS), Arnaud Braud (Orange) For more information & inquiries, please . The group specifies the Schema for the Self-Descriptions of Providers, their Service Offerings, and the Resources they are composed of.The Self-Description schema comprises of a taxonomy of specific class of Service Offerings and Resources, a well a the attribute to describe instance of these classes. This information is released a part of the, led by the WG Compliance. Furthermore, the WG Service Characteristics work on the Self-Description Information Model, which will be released together with the Sub-WG ICAM specifications. It also contributes to the. Lead and Vice-Lead: Christoph Lange-Bever (Fraunhofer), Anja Strunk (Cloud&Heat) For more information & inquiries, please . Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Gaia-X Board of Directors 2023-2025 On this page you will find an overview of the Gaia-X Board of Directors for 2023-2025 in alphabetic order by company. Catherine Jestin Chairwoman of the BOD Airbus Executive Vice President Digital and Information Management at Airbus since 1 July 2021 and member of the Companys Executive Committee. Catherine ha previously held the position of Chief Information Officer (CIO) at Airbus since March 2020. In this role, she drove state-of-the-art Information Technology system and solution supporting Airbus employees, customer and suppliers. Prior to this position, Catherine wa Chief Information Officer at Airbus Helicopters, a role she held from July 2013 to February 2020. Before joining Airbus, Catherine held various positions, between 2007 and 2013, at Rio Tinto in Montreal, Canada, in Information Systems & Technology (IS&T). Catherine also spent 17 year at Accenture and wa nominated Partner in 2002, a position she held for five years. Jean Philipe Poirault ATOS Jean-Philippe Poirault joined Atos in September 2019 a the Global Head of the Telecom Media Technology (TMT) Industry. Since March 2022, he ha been appointed CEO of Big Data& Security business (BDS). He is also a member of the Atos Executive Board. Prior to Atos, Jean Philippe worked at Amazon Web Services in USA a the Global Head of the AWS Telecom Industry Business Unit. Prior to joining AWS, Jean-Philippe wa Senior Vice President and Global Head of the IT and Cloud Service Business Unit and a member of the Executive Leadership team at Ericsson. Before Ericsson, Jean-Philippe wa the President and Global Head of the Multi-media, IT and Telecom Service Business at Alcatel Lucent. Jean-Philippe earned graduate degree in Engineering from Centrale-Supelec and from from Ecole Speciale de travaux public du btiment et de l industrie. Susanne Dehmel Bitkom Member of the Executive Board & management team since October 2014, where she is responsible for the Legal & Security business unit and Artificial intelligence & Cloud Issues. Susanne is a lawyer and completed her law study in Passau, Freiburg & Cardiff. Before taking over the data protection department at Bitkom, she wa responsible for copyright and intellectual property right from 2002-2009. She ha been leading the data protection department since 2010. She wa an expert member of the Commission on AI of the German Parliament and wa part of the Expert Council on Consumer Questions for the German Ministry of Justice from 2018-22. She is currently part of the Advisory Board on the German Digital Strategy at the Ministry for Digital and Traffic. An important part of her work is promoting trust and security in the digital world and the practical further development of the legal framework for the digital economy & society. Kai Demtrder BMW Studied aerospace engineering with a focus on numeric computing at the University of Stuttgart. After studies, started with an IT technology and consulting company focusing on software development and IT architecture. Joined BMW Group in 2005 and held various position within IT Development, IT Architecture and IT Strategy. Headed the unit responsible for the Connected Car Digital Backend and Big Data and set up a cross company data analytics and exchange platform. Since 2021 Vice President for Data Transformation and Enterprise Platforms within BMWs Group IT, comprising platform for Inter-Company Data-Exchange, Data-Management and AI. Aude Gauthier Moreau BNP Paribas Aude Gauthier-Moreau is the deputy head of BNP Paribas CIB Core Banking, a global department (500+ people, covering 40 countries). She ha more than 25 year of experience, successfully relying on solid skill in IT, project management and global organization management. She ha combined technical and functional skills, becoming an expert in data management and governance, in relation to regulation such a GDPR and European Acts and with local regulators, a well a in risk, compliance and cybersecurity aspects. During the last 2 years, she ha been actively contributing to the board resolution a a recognised representative of the banking sector. She steered the BNP Paribas community for Cloud and Gaia-X and is a Board of Directors member of the Fondation Mines-Telecom and a delegated member to the Cigref. Francisco Mingorance CISPE Hispano-Swiss, based in Brussels, helped create CISPE.cloud in 2016 with a group of leading European cloud infrastructure providers. He also took part in effort to develop a cloud infrastructure Code of Conduct under the GDPR to help cloud customer regain control of their data by enabling data processing and storage exclusively in Europe; developed the Ten Principles for Fair Software licensing in the Cloud; co-created the Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact to make all cloud service climate Neutral by 2030 and worked with the European Commission to develop industry best practice to facilitate data portability. Francisco represents CISPE in the board of Gaia-X. A lawyer with an engineering background from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Francisco ha over 25 year of experience working with leading technology firms. Leonardo Camiciotti CONSORZIO TOP-IX Leonardo Camiciotti is currently Executive Director of the TOP-IX Consortium (). Since 2006 he ha been responsible for the TOP-IX Development Program, which facilitates new business creation by providing infrastructural support (i.e. Internet bandwidth, computing resource and product prototyping) and promotes technological innovation project in different sector (e.g. Interconnection, Cloud Computing, Big Data, etc.), aiming at producing economic and social impact. Previously, he wa Research Scientist, Strategy & Business Development Officer and Business Owner at Philips Corporate Research. He graduated in Electronic Engineering from the University of Florence and hold an M.B.A. from the University of Turin. Aniello Gentile CSIT- Confindustria Servizi Innovativi e Tecnologici Graduated with honour in Electronic Engineering, Aniello Gentile joined Enel in 1981. Until May 2023, he ha been director of Enels Global Cyber Security unit. Since June 2018, he is in the World Economic Forum Working Group for Systems of Cyber Resilience: Electricity. In May 2020, he wa elected to the Executive Board of SWIPO AISBL after being one of the co-chairs of Switching Provider and the Portability of Data (SWIPO) Working Group. Since November 2021 he is in the interim management committee of Gaia-X Italian Hub. ln August,2022 he became member of Confindustrias Technical Group Digitale per la competitivit del sistema industriale. Since March 2023, he is a Board Member of Confindustria Servizi lnnovativi e Tecnologici, where he ha the delegation for European policy for the development of innovative services. Laurent Lafaye Dawex French entrepreneur, co-CEO of Dawex, Laurent Lafaye ha a recognized track record in the field of the data economy and regularly speaks to decision-makers about the creation of data ecosystem and the challenge of data circulation, from data trading to developing data hub and data marketplaces. Founded in 2015 with Fabrice Tocco, Dawex allows organization to create new ecosystem around data exchange platform that meet regulatory requirement and address traceability and security challenges. Dawex technology enables economic stakeholder to value the potential of their ecosystem through data exchange. In 2020, Dawex wa awarded Tech Pioneer by the World Economic Forum, joined the Global Future Council on Data Policy and spoke at Davos in 2022 about creating trust in data exchanges. Dawex is also the initiator of an international standardization program on Trusted Data Transaction. With a degree in bio-mathematics and computer science, Laurent co-founded a first company specialized in data, sold in 2014, after starting his career in technology and internet consulting. Maximilian Ahrens Deutsche Telekom Maximilian Ahrens is Managing Director of T Digital at Deutsche Telekom since January 1, 2023.Before he held the role of CTO and VP Cloud Strategy at T-Systems, Deutsche Telekoms division for Enterprise cusotmers.Maximilian ha an entrepreneurial background. Before joining T-Systems he founded and sold the majority stake of an infrastructure cloud technology company that enabled client to build and manage distributed cloud deployments. As the CTO and CPO he led the product strategy and engineering teams. Cecilia Bonefeld-Dahl Digitaleurope Cecilia Bonefeld-Dahl ha been Director General of DIGITALEUROPE since 2017. She ha more than 25 year of experience in the ICT industry. She previously held global position at IBM and Oracle and two international SMEs, building business across Europe and China. She ha deep insight into the digitalisation of business and society and the data-driven economy. She also served a President of the Board of the main Danish ICT association, a Board member of the Royal Export Council (Danish Foreign Ministry) and chairman of the Export Grant Committee of Denmark for 9 years. Cecilia ha also held advisory role to various organisation and expert groups, including the European Commissions Industrial Forum, the High-Level Forum on European Standardisation, and the Advisory Group to the Secretary General of NATO on Emerging and Disruptive Technologies. She ha been a Gaia-X Board member since June 2021. Martine Gouriet EDF Martine Gouriet is director of digital us within EDF Group, a role which she assume in 2019. Most recently, she wa Director of IT and Telecom shared service at the company. Previously , she wa leading EDf subsidiary Edelia which is specialized within data, energy efficiency and smart grids. She ha worked during 17 year within Orange and she ha launched in France the IP and VOD TV. Martine Gouriet is also board director of Gaia X, leading the work related to label and energy in the association. She is gratuated from Ecole Polytechnique and Telecom Paris Tech. Dario Avallone Engineering Ingegneria Informatica SpA Dario ha spent 36 year working in Engineerings R&D department, 20+ acting a Director of the R&D Dep. counting almost 450 researchers. He ha been holding and still hold significant connection and position in relevant European and National research and innovation Associations and initiatives, actively contributing to the research development of emerging ICT opportunity and trends. At EU level Dario has/had relevant board member/chair- role in the following initiative IDSA, ECSO, FIWARE, BDVA, EOS, NESSI, EIT-Digital. In addition he is member of the Board of Sannio University and Advisor of Parthenope Uni. (NA). Dario is a Board Member of Gaia-X since June 2021 providing relevant contribution to the creation of the DSBA, to the set-up of the Italian Gaia-X hub and to the Gaia-X lighthouse Structura-X aimed to implement a Gaia-X native infrastructure Boris Otto Fraunhofer Gesellschaft Boris Otto is Professor for Industrial Information Management at TU Dortmund University and Director of the Fraunhofer Institute for Software and Systems Engineering (Fraunhofer ISST). Furthermore, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Fraunhofer ICT Group (the largest ICT research organization in Europe) and Member of the Presidential Council of the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft. As an industrial engineer by education, Boris Otto is a senior Information Systems researcher with a focus on data ecosystems, data spaces, data governance, and enterprise data management. He is member of the Boards of Directors of the International Data Spaces e. V., of the Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL, and of the Catena-X Automotive Network e.V. Moreover, Boris Otto serf a the co-ordinator of the EU Data Spaces Support Centre. Daniel Saez Domingo ITI INSTITUTO TECNOLOGICO DE INFORMATICA Telecommunication Engineer from Polytechnic University of Valencia and Master in Business Administration and Management by EOI Business School. More than 20 year of experience in R&D policies, competitive intelligence and strategy in ICT. President of the Spanish Gaia-X Hub, Gaia-X AISBL member of the Board of Directors since 2021. Daniel is also working for the establishment of the Data Economy in Europe a member of BoD in BDVA, member of the Steering Committee of NESSI, Member of the management board of Planetic since 2007, currently vicepresident and coordinating the Spanish interplatforms group of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence. President of the delegate commission of AI4ES, the Spanish excellence network in Data based technology enablers and is the coordinator of the Data Cycle Hub, the Data Innovation Hub, which is coordinating EuHubs4Data, the European Federation of Big Data Innovation Hubs. Bert Verdonck Luxembourg National Data Service Bert Verdonck lead the Luxembourg National Data Service, a new governmental organisation that solves the hard problem of governance between multiple institutions, the technical challenge of data platform at scale, and the compliance with ELSI requirement in cross-border settings. In his prior role at Philips, he explored the various health data space initiatives, to improve data sharing for primary care delivery a well a for secondary use and research. During 26 year at Philips, he delivered result in the cloud/edge/data domain, via modern software stacks, healthcare informatics solution within the hospital and in the home, solving complex data challenges, and leading people in the transformation towards data spaces. He ha a PhD in medical image processing from ENST Paris (France) and an engineering degree from KULeuven (Belgium). Ville Sirvi NIIS Nordic Institute for Interoperability Solutions Ville Sirvi lead the Nordic Institute for Interoperability Solutions (NIIS), overseeing the development of the X-Road open-source software with hundred of million of end user worldwide. He also contributes his expertise a a board member of the Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud, advancing the development of European data spaces. With a diverse background ranging from startup to listed companies, Sirvi brings a wealth of experience in digital transformation. His area of specialisation include software development, digital commerce, digital government, interoperability, and open-source software. Throughout his career, he ha been a frequent speaker and panellist at various technology conference and events. Nassima Auvray Orange Since January 2023, Nassima Auvray is Chief Trust Officer (in charge of the strategy and the marketing of Connectivity, Cloud, Data, Cybersecurity trusted solutions) at Orange Business. As Chief Armaments Engineer she started her career in the French defense procurement agency (DGA) a expert and project manager in satellite telecommunication and electronic warfare. In 2015, she wa CFOs Chief of Staff before joining the National Budget Office of the finance minister. From 2019 to 2021, she wa Advisor of French defense minister (Florence Parly) and in charge of Innovation, Digital Transformation and Cybersecurity topics. In January 2022, she joined Orange Business a Director of strategy and marketing for trusted cloud solutions. Nassima Auvray ha an eengineering master degree in embedded electronics & signal processing. Thierry Souche OVHcloud Thierry Souche joined OVHcloud in 2021 a Chief Technology Officer. He lead the Product Business Unit, in charge of the deployment and operation of the OVHcloud service for all customer segments. His team of several hundred of people is dedicated to deliver OVHcloud product roadmap with a wide use of open-source solution and open, by design, to market-leading solutions. They also largely collaborate with the R&D team to integrate and deploy the latest generation solutions. Prior to OVHcloud, Thierry operated for 26 year in the Orange Group, a a Technology leader in the Netherlands, UK and Romania, and for the last 9 year led digital transformation and innovation a Group CIO. Antonietta Mastroianni Proximus Member of the Proximus Leadership Squad since April 2021, where she act a Chief Digital & IT Officer. Before Proximus, she wa Group CIO and CDIO at the Danish TDC, Head of IT and Business Partner at Swiss Sunrise, and she had several role in Swisscom and H3G Italy. She is an influential IT leader with 20 year of international Telecom experience leveraging technology to drive organizational growth, performance and profitability. She ha worked in different European country (Italy, Switzerland, Denmark and Belgium) and is a council member of Etis. Currently, she hold the VC Finance seat in the Board of Directors of Gaia-X, chairwoman in the Board of Directors of Proximus Ada and a Board Observer of Lumine Group. She studied Computer and Automation Engineering at University of Siena and is a member of the Order of Engineers of the province of Caserta. In 2022, Antonietta wa awarded the Telco Women of the Year by NetworkX, 5G World CxO of the year 2021 by 5G World and named Telco CxO of the Year in 2021. Mark Khner SAP Mark ha been integral to SAPs cloud journey since 2001, pivotal in building large-scaleinfrastructures, including the SAP Cloud and Enterprise Cloud Services. He supported cloudtransformation at the Amadeus CTO office in 2018 before rejoining SAP in 2020. As VP of Cloud Architecture and Engineering, Mark drive cloud transformation and sovereign cloudinitiatives and represents SAP in various body such a Gaia-X a director, a co-chair atthe Industry Alliance for Data, Edge, and Cloud and a member of the BITKOM workinggroup Gaia-X und Cloud Politik. Mark initiated developing SAPs Open ReferenceArchitecture project for the Important Project of Common European Interest CloudInfrastructure and Services (IPCEI-CIS). Thomas Hahn Siemens Thomas Hahn is since 2011 Chief Expert Software at Siemens AG.After studying computer science at Friedrich-Alexander University ofErlangen he joined the company in 1986. Thomas Hahn had several responsibility in the area of manufacturing such a Head of Software Development for Industrial Automation Systems. Beyond his activity at Siemens, Thomas Hahn is a member or board member of various bodies, including Openlab CERN and steering committee Plattform Industrie 4.0.He is vice-president OPC Foundation, Vice-Chairperson GAIA-X AISBL,Chairman of Labs Network Industrie 4.0, Board Member of the Bavarian KI-Rat and President Big Data Value Association. Alberto Nulli TIM I have been degreed in Computer Science at University of Pisa in 1996. My career ha begun with Sun Microsystems / Netscape a Software developer. My career in Sun ha been developed in the Professional Service Unit with EMEA coverage in the Java Practice. In 2005 Ive joined Cisco covering different position in the EMEA and WW organization for DC business in the Service Provider vertical. In 2012 Ive joined EMC/VMware a EMEA CTO Hybrid cloud. In this role Ive finalized my Cloud Architect skillset adding Management and financial skills. Straight after this experience Ive started a CTO role in Purestorage focusing on Cloud and Service Provider and data management. In 2020 Ive joined TIM subsidiary Noovle to run the Portfolio and Center of excellence. In this role Ive also added skill related to Partnership and architecture. Actually I am in TIM with same and expanded role Berry Vetjens TNO Director Digital lnnovations at TNO ICT, Strategy and Policy (ISP). He ha over 25 year of experience in concept development and innovation management roles. He is currently involved in a large number of Dutch public-private innovation eco-systems, among which 5Groningen, Delft Internet of Things Lab, Partnership for Cybersecurity innovation, dcypher, Techruption, Quantum Application Lab and the Leibniz Institute. Berry ha been responsible for business development and portfolio management of TNO ICTs innovation activity for the past 6 years, resulting in the creation of a 70+ people datasharing innovation cluster and pushing topic like interoperability, privacy and sovereignty to the top of the agenda. Furthermore, he ha been responsible for the strategy course on embedding TNO portfolio choice in Europe, resulting in the creation of the Dutch Gaia-X Hub and TNOs participation in several EU PPPs (SNS, ADRA, BDVA). Hubert Tardieu Independent Board Member After 27 year in Sema then SchlumbergerSema then Atos in various position on Executive Committee including EVP for Global Telecom, Global Finance, Global Consulting& Systems Integration, Hubert Tardieu ha been the advisor of Atos CEO helping him to form the vision of what will be our world in 5 year ahead. To help him in this task he formed the Atos Scientific Community in June 2009 which he chaired until October 2020. He is now consultant with his own company. Hubert Tardieu is the author of several book on Information System Design Methodology Merise and in March 2020: Deliberately Digital: Rewriting Enterprise DNA for enduring success Tardieu and all. Springer ed Hubert Tardieu ha been successively, in 2020 the Interim CEO then in 2021 the Chairman of the Board of the Gaia-X AISBL until June 7. He is currently Independent Board Member in charge of relationship with governments. Jeroen Tas Independent Board Member Advisor, Board Member, and investor since 2021. Prior to that, he held the position of Chief Innovation and Strategy Officer at Royal Philips from 2011 to 2021. Founder, COO, and Vice-chairman at Mphasis from 1998 to 2006. Leader CiHbank Techlab from 1992 to 1998. Throughout his career, he ha received notable accolade such a the E&Y Entrepreneur of the Year Award 2004 for the New York Region, in the Technology category. Dutch CIO of the Year 2013 Award, the NASSCOM Global CIO Award 2014, the World InnovaHon Congress 2014 CIO Leadership Award, the CIONet European CIO of 2014 Award, the IT ExecuHve 2014 Award, and the Accenture 2015 Innovator of the Year Award. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Ecosystems Ecosystems What are they? Gaia-X Ecosystems support the creation and development of Data Spaces and projects. Data Space creation and delivery is one of the core element that Gaia-X try to realise in a single or multiple ecosystems. i.e. Health, Infrastructure, Tourism and more, which could potentially multiply the overall business impact and replicate the delivery of additional data space in a snowball effect in a many vertical ecosystem a possible. The aim of ecosystem is to share data space knowledge and collect cross-country use-cases while giving Gaia-X Association member the opportunity to network, collaborate and identify open standard related to specific domains. The Gaia-X Data Space Business Committee support the link with and across the ecosystem to ensure the development and application of Gaia-X deliverable in specific domains. An indicative list of the current ecosystem includes the following: Aerospace, Agriculture, Tourism, Education, Energy, Finance, Geoinformation, Health, Manufacturing, Media, Mobility, Public Sector, Smart Cities, Smart Living, Construction and Logistics. Which Ecosystems exist? Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Hubs Hubs What are they? Gaia-X Hubs are the central contact point for interested party in each country. They are not a body of the Association, but they may be viewed a think tank and grass root supporter for the Gaia-X project. The Association and the national Gaia-X Hubs cooperate. Any organisation and company that work on and with use cases, create expertise and resources, or are interested to become a stakeholder and create data spaces, are welcome to join the Gaia-X Hub. Discover more. Role of the Hubs and relationship with Gaia-X The role of Gaia-X Hubs is a crucial component of the Association a they constitute the Gaia-X think tank, where concrete case of implementation of Gaia-X data space are investigated, designed and implemented. Hubs are tightly connected to local government through the ministry devoted to the Digital Transformation programs. In this way they have a fast track to propose solution in line with the strategic political initiative and aligned with the Gaia-X endeavor of the Association and of all other European hubs. Hubs group together all member from a specific region, user and providers, to work together at designing ideas, whilst implicitely identifying the consortium that will be able to implement those projects. Projects envisaged by hub receive the endorsement of the Gaia-X Association to ensure competitive advantage in gaining access to local funding initiatives. Hubs collaborate across different territory to ensure the creation of pan-European data space where this is possible. An example everybody understands after the pandemic experience is the importance of a pan-European data space for healthcare, a the only way to obtain free circulation of citizen across borders, trusted verification of pandemic tests, collaboration across researcher and hospital and a seamless experience of patient caring wihin and across European territories. Gaia-X hub have several objectives. Amongst these are: Act a a local ambassador for Gaia-X Identify territory specific need and high priority data space Collaborate with other hub to develop common pan-European data space Make Gaia-X real identifying project and creating Gaia-X service in the market Help local government implementing RRF in the most effective way adopting Gaia-X solution Promote the participation of new member in the association Provide feedback on specific need and requirement to be implemented in the Gaia-X framework The combination of Association Committees (Technical Committee, Data Space Business Committee, Policy & Rules Committee) and Regional Hubs, create an ecosystem for translating concept into reality and receiving continuous feedbacks. The effectiveness of the Gaia-X project in the industry, the public administration and the civil society, will BE the sum of all the effort from the Gaia-X network, and the more concrete are the result, the faster will be the creation of a market demand and the final lever effect on the European economy that we aim to. What do Hubs do? Connect Hubs connect potential Gaia-X stakeholders, both within and across different country and sectors. Spread Hubs increase user interest across Europe and globally to scale up the spread of use cases. Coordinate Hubs liaise closely with the Gaia-X Association to define requirements, relevant regulation and policies. Connect Hubs connect potential Gaia-X stakeholders, both within and across different country and sectors. Spread Hubs increase user interest across Europe and globally to scale up the spread of use cases. Coordinate Hubs liaise closely with the Gaia-X Association to define requirements, relevant regulation and policies. Consolidate Hubs consolidate relevant initiative within countries. Streamline Hubs ensure efficient cooperation and avoid the unnecessary doubling up of effort within a particular industry. Consolidate Hubs consolidate relevant initiative within countries. Streamline Hubs ensure efficient cooperation and avoid the unnecessary doubling up of effort within a particular industry. All national Gaia-X Hubs Become part of our Hubs! Gaia-X is inviting you to participate in the design of a sovereign data infrastructure. Contribute use case from specific sector and benefit from the exchange of idea and best practices. Search Directory Distance Range Radius: KM Status Loading... Number Of Members: 0 Store Direction Get Your Directions From: To: KM Mile GET DIRECTIONS Use my location to find the closest Service Provider near me USE LOCATION Why join a Hub? 01 You can contribute to a thriving data ecosystem based on European values. 02 You have the possibility to work on numerous data space and stimulate innovation. 03 You can strengthen tie with expert community in your industry and provide input to discussion on innovation at the European level. Join a Hub You are interested in participating in a Gaia-X Hub? Then write us! Didnt find a Hub in your country? We can support you in joining another Hub. If there is enough support in your country, we are happy to help you found a new Gaia-X Hub. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Community Community What do we do? Community stakeholder contribute to the Working Groups and share their knowledge and expertise via our collaboration platform, events, conferences, workshop and webinars. The working group are led and driven by contributor outside the Gaia-X Association. With an elected chair and co-chair, they choose their own organisational structure. The Technical Committee play a supervisory role in the assignment and steering of the Working Groups, ensuring that their outputswhether in the form of position papers, technical evaluations, whitepapers or proposalsare integrated into the technical development of Gaia-X. The Lab will help u accelerate our work to release working software in an innovative, practicable and viable way this is the only way to move forward from this point on. Pierre Gronlier, CTO of Gaia-X The Lab will help u accelerate our work to release working software in an innovative, practicable and viable way this is the only way to move forward from this point on. Pierre Gronlier, CTO of Gaia-X Why join the Community? Contribute to a thriving data ecosystem in Europe based on European values. Strengthen tie with expert community in your industry and exchange knowledge. Participate in numerous Work Packages and stimulate innovation. Contribute to a thriving data ecosystem in Europe based on European values. Strengthen tie with expert community in your industry and exchange knowledge. Participate in numerous Work Packages and stimulate innovation. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Endorsement Programme Gaia-X Endorsement Programme The Gaia-X Endorsement Programme stand a strategic initiative to support Gaia-X adoption by engaging and supporting data space initiative to meet fundamental Gaia-X mission objective and principles. The Programme serf a a formalized structure designed to guide project in aligning with Gaia-X principles, offering a systematic approach to fostering the growth of data space initiative and adherence to the Gaia-X framework. The Programme target industrial or public projects, selected and recognised by the Gaia-X Association for their relevance and significant contribution concerning the development and establishment of open, non-proprietary ecosystem for data exchange within and across sector in full alignment with the vision and the goal of Gaia-X. Rationale for theEndorsement Programme The core objective of the Gaia-X Endorsement Programme is to actively promote the adoption of Gaia-X principle and standards, while recognising and supporting project that seek endorsement in meeting specific criterion to achieve a high level of quality, compliance, and maturity in Gaia-X implementation. The Programmes goal is twofold: on the one hand, it aim to ensure that products, business models, and service created by project align with Gaia-X vision and goals; on the other hand, it seek to ensure that the development and operationalisation of Gaia-X framework component and necessary technology address concrete business needs, are practically feasible and useable and are in line with user expectation and market demand. It is important for Gaia-X to elicit and understand user requirement via endorsed project and to have active participant in the refinement, implementation and subsequent testing and industrialisation phases. Different Levels of Endorsement ENDORSEMENT LETTER QUALIFIED PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE DATA SPACES The Gaia-X Endorsement Programme introduces a comprehensive tiered structure, encompassing four distinct level Endorsement Letter, Qualified Projects, Lighthouse Projects, and Lighthouse Data Spaces. Collectively, these project are referred to a endorsed projects. The document present the process, eligibility criteria, benefit and expected contribution per each endorsement level. It is noteworthy that the endorsement Programme initially included only the Endorsement Letter and the Lighthouse Project endorsement. However, recognising the diverse maturity level of project within the Gaia-X ecosystem, the Programme ha been expanded to encompass project at various stages. This expansion is a strategic response to the evolving landscape of data space initiatives, providing a more inclusive framework for project with different level of maturity to actively contribute to and benefit from the Gaia-X community. Each level is designed to reflect Gaia-X adoption and compliance level, a well a the project maturity in accordance with the development stage defined by the Data Spaces Support Centre in the Data Spaces Glossary. The tailored recognition allows for a nuanced understanding of and support for each endorsed project, while serving an incentive for continuous improvement and commitment to enhance their Gaia-X adoption and compliance. Endorsement Program Benefits The benefit accrued through endorsement are substantial and contribute significantly to an organisation positioning within the Gaia-X ecosystem. Increased Visibility: Endorsed project gain prominence within the Gaia-X community, attracting more attention from potential collaborator and users. Early Adoption Recognition: Endorsed member are recognised a early adopter and pioneer of Gaia-X, enhancing their reputation in the industry. Enhanced Credibility: Gaia-X endorsement serf a a credible endorsement, assuring stakeholder commitment to Gaia-X principles. Market Advantage: Learn about Gaia-X Digital Clearing House (GXDCH) service offering and business opportunity upfront. Networking Opportunities: Access to a vast network of members, businesses, and experts, facilitating collaborations, partnerships, and knowledge exchange. Resource Access: Access to exclusive resource and support, aiding endorsed member in furthering their Gaia-X initiatives. Most importantly, Gaia-X endorsed project are closely integrated into the Gaia-X requirement process, participating in the elicitation, evaluation and prioritisation of requirement (functional and non-functional, business, technical, legal, etc.) and therefore take a vital part in shaping the Gaia-X development roadmap. Criteria & Benefits: Overview Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Endorsement Letter Endorsement Letter ENDORSEMENT LETTER QUALIFIED PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE DATA SPACES An endorsement letter from Gaia-X Association is a valuable asset for member seeking support for their project proposals. Exclusive to Gaia-X members, this endorsement serf a a testament to the project alignment with Gaia-X principle and technical requirements, reinforcing it credibility and potential for success. Members can request this endorsement by providing the project detail and committing to Gaia-X standards. Benefits of Gaia-X endorsement include easier access to funding opportunities, networking opportunity within the member community, participation in Gaia-X ecosystems, support for compliance with Gaia-X specifications, and enhanced visibility through promotion on official channels. Moreover, endorsed project contribute to Gaia-X objective by actively engaging in ecosystem activity and sharing insights, ultimately advancing the collective mission of digital sovereignty and European value creation. Learn more about the endorsement letter criterion and benefit on If you are not yet a member of Gaia-X, to join our community! Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Qualified Projects Qualified Projects ENDORSEMENT LETTER QUALIFIED PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE DATA SPACES A Gaia-X Qualified Project designation signifies a project solid alignment with Gaia-X principle and technical standards, enhancing it standing within the Gaia-X ecosystem. Only Gaia-X members, acting a project coordinators, are eligible to seek this endorsement, highlighting their commitment to nurturing digital sovereignty and European value creation. To qualify, member must provide a comprehensive project description, adhere to Gaia-X policy and guidelines, and demonstrate clear use case enabling data interoperability and portability. Once endorsed, qualified project benefit from participation in the Gaia-X Endorsed Projects Community, contributing to Gaia-Xs objective through feedback on requirement and specifications. Additionally, they gain access to shared best practices, receive support for alignment with Gaia-X specifications, and enjoy recognition through promotion on official channels. By contributing to endorsed project community and Gaia-X working groups, member actively shape the direction of the initiative while capitalising on early insight into Gaia-X Digital Clearing House service and business opportunities. Through active participation and engagement, qualified project play a pivotal role in advancing Gaia-Xs mission and fostering a collaborative ecosystem dedicated to digital sovereignty and innovation. Learn more about the Qualified Project criterion and benefit on If you are not yet a member of Gaia-X, to join our community! Cloud Servicies Digital-ter 2050: Digital-ter 2050 provides a digital framework compliant with European regulations. It offer open-source specification and service to streamline procurement, foster collaboration among platform providers, and ensure cloud compliance. Governed by open-source best practices, it promotes transparency and innovation through stakeholder involvement, driving sustainable digital transformation. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Lighthouse project Lighthouse project Making stride in navigating digital transformation with lighthouse project These project aim to create a data exchange platform built on transparency, trust, and openness. They target multiple industries, such a Agriculture, Mobility and Manufacturing, to name a few. These project will help u bring and create a coherent data infrastructure ecosystem. These initial business case are the front-runner implementing the Gaia-X framework that will equally enable a comprehensive pipeline of future lighthouse projects. Manufacturing ACCURATE: This project aim to boost the competitiveness of European manufacturing company and value chain by improving their sustainability, performance stability, resilience, and ability to manage unforeseen events. To achieve these benefits, ACCURATE will develop innovative approach and deliver an integrated set of result validated in 3 pivotal use case covering multiple key European industrial sector and value network (aerospace, automotive, biotech, energy, medical, and mobility). Infrastructure & Technology Boot-X: The Boot-X project is a part of Huaweis Exchange Data Space (EDS) and address the underlying infrastructure and technology stack for setting up either a complete dataspace environment or all necessary component to participate in an existing dataspace. To contribute to the EDS objectives, Boot-X ensures compliance with the Gaia-X trust framework and IDSAs DSP. Boot-X, therefore, come with built-in feature to support the generation of VC/VP description for participant and services, according to the Gaia-X Trust framework. Aeronautics & Space COOPERANTS: COOPERANTS (Collaborative Processes and Services for Aeronautics and Space) is the world only collaborative alliance of industry, SMEs and research institute in the Aeronautics and Space sector that solves pressing digital collaboration problem by creating a common data space, powered by Gaia-X. The aim of the national consortium is to develop more efficient, decentralised form for future working method and process across the entire lifecycle of space or air vehicles. COOPERANTS develops and operates a digital service infrastructure, powered by Gaia-X, for the low-barrier exchange of heterogeneous data from individual system landscape a well a for the operation of new, collaborative smart services. Manufacturing, Industry 4.0 Data4Industry-X: is the trusted, secure, compliant and sovereign Data Exchange solution for Industry, improving competitiveness and reducing the carbon footprint of major global industrial organizations. Initially addressing the automotive and power generation industry challenges, Data4Industry-X delivers a powerful response to support the industry digital transformation, boost sustainability objective and capitalize on the high potential of industrial data. Smart Cities & Urban Data ELINOR-X: This project present the first Gaia-X implementation in Switzerland. A new model of data collaboration is being developed along Elinor Ostroms Principles of Commons that will enable the public and private sector to share data easily and targeted. Data is routed based on individually specified and legally binding data sharing agreements, directly from data provider to data consumer, without ever being stored centrally. Elinor-X provides the foundation for data source of future digital twin that will enable the government and other public service provider to solve important and pressing challenge through data-driven decision-making. Energy Energy data-X: Energy data-X aim to create a common data space for the German energy industry in Gaia-X. The data will remain decentralised with the data owner but can be provided and exchanged according to the developed compliance rule and in a sovereign manner. This creates the basis for improved energy industry process and new, innovative data-drivenapplications and business models. A significant contribution to achieving the German and European energy and climate target is expected. Mobility, Transport & Tourism EONA-X: Aims to provide a trusted environment to unlock data set and foster mobility, transport and tourism use cases. A primary focus is the optimisation of multimodal trip to contribute to achieving the zero emission target defined by the EU Mobility Strategy. A powerful demonstrator wa delivered based on real time data coming from real production system of airline and rail industry. Manufacturing, Industry 4.0 The European Production Giganet (EuProGigant): It is an Austrian-German lighthouse research project for calamity avoiding self-orchestration of value chain and learning ecosystem working on central question related to the smart and sovereign use of data in manufacturing. Scheduled for the latter half of 2022, the project aim to deliver on machine connection and machine-oriented data processing using Gaia-X compliant edge architecture, thus creating resilience in the value creation ecosystem. Finance The European Data Trustee (EuroDaT): EuroDaT is an international consortium that aim to establish the legal and technological framework for a neutral data trustee operating in accordance with Gaia-X and the EU Data Governance Act. It is based on the unique principle of data transaction, which ensures the secure and legally compliant exchange of data between any party and enables independent analysis of shared data. Mobility, Transport GAIA-X4 Future Mobility: A project family located in the mobility domain of the German Gaia-X Hub The focus of the 6 project is on the Gaia-X-based implementation of future mobility applications. Due to the product proximity of the applications, data-based networking with manufacturers, suppliers, service provider and user is particularly important. Around 80 player from all application, research and topic area of mobility, especially information and communication technologies, are involved in GAIA-X4 Future Mobility. Health HEALTH-X dataLOFT and TEAM-X (Trusted Ecosystem of Applied Medical Data eXchange) both work on solution for trustworthy and secure health data space that give data owner maximum sovereignty over their own data. Both project have a lot in common and the motivation for HEALTH-X dataLOFT and TEAM-X are similar. Hence, the coordinator of both project have decided to work closely together and use synergy a much a possible to implement GXFS/XFSC in the healthcare domain and roll out Gaia-X health data space where citizen are in charge of sharing their data in a firm commitment to the European Gaia-X value to shape the future of data sharing through Gaia-X. Mobility Mobility Data Space (MDS):The Mobility Data Space (MDS) function a a marketplace facilitating the exchange of mobility & logistics data, catering to both business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-government (B2G) interactions. Furthermore, the MDS also develops sector overarching use cases, interlinking, e.g., the mobility sector with energy, weather, and/or urban planning. The German National Academy of Science and Engineering (acatech) is the founder and majority shareholder of the DRM Datenraum Mobilitt GmbH the operating company of the Mobility Data Space. Energy Omega-X: An Energy Data Space to boost the European data economy This will include federated infrastructure, data marketplace and service marketplace, involving data sharing between different stakeholder and demonstrating it value for concrete energy use case while guaranteeing scalability and interoperability with other data space initiatives. Education & Skills Prometheus-X: The project aim to develop and deploy a cloud to edge infrastructure for education & skill capable of connecting service and data, and to make this data space ecosystem accessible to all. They are currently delivering 6 use case (1 not within Education & skills) and 21 building block ranging from consent management to skill interoperability, decentralised AI training, Crowd-tagging system, etc. Electronics Supply Chain Smart Connected Supplier Network (SCSN): It is an open data lighthouse ecosystem along the line of Gaia-X that enables data sharing in a manufacturing environment, resulting in fast, safe, secure, and efficient data exchange within the high-tech supply chain. Brainport Industries is one of the leading partner in this project. As part of the project scope, the team will facilitate new application cluster within SCSN and will scale up SCSN from a content perspective towards different industries. Cloud Services Structura-X: A lighthouse project for European cloud infrastructure endeavour to enable existing Cloud Service and Infrastructure Providers (CSP) data and infrastructure service to be Gaia-X certifiable. The goal is to create an ecosystem of independent CSPs, orchestrated by a shared layer of federation certification and labelling service based on Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT). The success will be measured through a set of Minimal Viable Products (MVPs), which shall be fully portable and interoperable between different CSPs and certified by Gaia-X or a delegated certification authority. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Lighthouse Data Spaces Lighthouse Data Spaces ENDORSEMENT LETTER QUALIFIED PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE PROJECTS LIGHTHOUSE DATA SPACES Gaia-X Lighthouse Data Spaces represent an exemplary level of alignment with Gaia-X principle and standards, signifying a distinguished commitment to advancing digital sovereignty and European value creation. Only Gaia-X Lighthouse Projects have the privilege to submit a request to Gaia-X Association for endorsement a Lighthouse Data Spaces. To qualify, the project must adhere to a set of criteria, including providing a clear roadmap for Gaia-X compliance services, demonstrating scalability potential, and fostering interoperability and portability of data. Lighthouse Data Spaces commit to adopting Gaia-X policy and rules, ensuring alignment with technical requirement and the Gaia-X Trust Framework. Furthermore, they must exhibit a Pan-European footprint, promoting the creation or expansion of data space across borders. Upon endorsement, Lighthouse Data Spaces enjoy an array of benefits, including participation in the Gaia-X Endorsed Projects Community, opportunity for validation and industrialisation of Gaia-X development results, and exclusive representation at major Gaia-X events. Additionally, they receive recognition through promotion on all Gaia-X official channel and gain access to shared best practice within Gaia-X ecosystems. Through active participation and contribution, Lighthouse Data Spaces play a vital role in shaping the direction of the Gaia-X initiative while driving innovation and collaboration within the digital ecosystem. Learn more about the Lighthouse Data Spaces criterion and benefit on If you are not yet a member of Gaia-X, to join our community! Agriculture Agdatahub: European operator of consent and data exchange platform specialised for farming industry. Agdatahub, the agricultural and agri-food data intermediation platform, trusted third party. Founded by and for the agricultural sector, Agdatahub is the leading player in the circulation of agricultural data in France and Europe in order to meet the food and environmental challenge of today and tomorrow. Our technological solution are designed to ensure that agricultural data is used in a controlled manner for innovation and consumer information. We put our expertise at the service of one ambition: to bring together all the player in the sector to disseminate the value of agricultural data! Automotive Supply Chain Catena-X: Itis one of the first industrial lighthouse project of Gaia-X. It aim to create a secure and standardised data-based ecosystem for business ranging from OEMs, 1st Tier and to small & medium enterprise in the entire automotive value-chain. A joint task force with Gaia-X ended in November 2021, resulting in full technical compliance of the proposed Catena-X architecture with Gaia-X principles. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Gaia-X Framework Gaia-X Framework The Association present below it Gaia-X Framework, which build upon the evolution of the X-Model and enables the transition from disjoint data & infrastructure ecosystems, to composable, interoperable & portable cross-sector data set and services. In this new model, Data Exchange occurs a a result of the contract negotiation being anchored into the infrastructure. Gaia-X Compliance provides the mean to objectivise the criterion for Natural, Legal Participants, Service Offerings and Datasets in an ecosystem or dataspace to take educated decision using information that can be measured, compared and verified. Those rule are described in the Trust Framework document. The Trust Framework can be extended by ecosystem and dataspaces to create their own specific criteria. These new criterion can be grouped to form a domain or market specific Label. The Gaia-X Framework Description Gaia-X Association cover three pillars: Compliance: for a common digital governance based on European values. Federation: enables interoperable & portable (Cross-) Sector data-sets and services. Data exchange: A mean to perform data exchange and anchor data contract negotiation result into the infrastructure. Each pillar will have one or more artefact in the form of Specifications, Software and Label. For further detail please browse . Interactive Knowledge Base Click on the image or the button below to visit the interactive Gaia-X Framework Knowledge Base. Learn more about it components, function & architecture along with the requirement for compliance. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation GXDCH GXDCH GXDCH (Gaia-X Digital Clearing House) the one-stop place to go and get verified against the Gaia-X rule to obtain compliance in an automated way. The GXDCH is the necessary element to operationalize Gaia-X in the market. The describes functional specifications, technical requirements, and SW asset necessary to be Gaia-X compliant. The GXDCH are a network of execution node for the compliance component that we have developed. This safeguard the way of running the Gaia-X compliance, not operated centrally by the Association, and where anybody can benefit from the open, transparent, and secure federated digital ecosystem thus making the Gaia-X mission a reality. Click the button below to find more information about the technical guideline for the service provider aiming at operating a Gaia-X Digital Clearing House. Click the button below to access the architecture diagram explaining the flow and the component interactions. The What GXDCH = Provides Gaia-X Clearance The GXDCH is a node of verification of the Gaia-X rules; It is the go-to place to obtain Gaia-X compliance and become part of the Gaia-X ecosystem; The GXDCH are non-exclusive, interchangeable multiple node operated by market operators, acting a a Gaia-X Federator; They operate and run service of the Gaia-X Framework (compulsory and optional), necessary to achieve compliance and support the onboarding of any Gaia-X adopter; They integrate to external TA (Trust Anchors), including CAB (Conformance Assessment Bodies) for external asseverations, Identity Verification (like eIDAS), and other TDS (Trusted Data Sources) a defined by the AISBL. The How GXDCH = Operationalise the Gaia-X Framework The Gaia-X Framework ha mandatory SW component (those controlling the Compliance) a well a optional SW component (referred a the GX Toolset); The code of compulsory component must run into service providing for the compulsory verification to become GX compliant; These service must be run in a physical compute node accessible to anyone; Each node must be operated by a service provider according to rule defined with and approved by the AISBL; The AISBL is not an operator of any node, but it ha control on the operator for the operation of compulsory services; Any operator compliant to the requirement defined by the AISBL and featuring the necessary characteristic a defined by the AISBL can become a node; Each node is connected in a network to ensure free access and selection by Gaia-X adopter and consistency of the compliance data managed by these nodes. Future operationalisation model of the GXDCH are described . The Why How to become GX Compliant?.. How to be visible in GX master Catalog? How to search for a Gaia-X service? How to build your own private Catalog? How to build your own private Federation? Want to join an existing Federation? Want to build your own Label? Want to find a Compliant Data Connector? Want to offer service or a Compliant Technology? Use GXDCH just to obtain compliance and do the rest yourself or find support at the GXDCH! GXDCH = One-Stop-Place for Gaia-X Each GXDCH must provide public service to implement the compulsory element necessary to achieve Gaia-X compliance (under the sole governance of the AISBL); Each GXDCH can offer (or resell) service to support the extended adoption of Gaia-X (out of the governance of the AISBL); Any Gaia-X adopter (user, provider, federator) can use any GXDCH to obtain compliance, join a federation, become a federator (or additional services); GXDCH act a a one-stop place for Gaia-X service facilitating the concentration and match of Demand and Offer. Mandatory GXDCH component Gaia-X Registry Gaia-X Compliance Gaia-X notarisation service for the registration number Optional GXDCH component Wizard Wallet Catalogue Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation News & Press News & Press Stay up to date with the latest news and press release from Gaia-X and find information and resource to support your press-related work below. We are committed to maintaining an open and transparent relationship with the media. If you are a member of the press and have question regarding Gaia-X, or would like to request an official statement, email u at , and our dedicated team will gladly assist you. Latest News The latest Gaia-X news, including blog articles, interview and news releases. Press Releases Concise and compelling news story from the Gaia-X team. Our press release can be downloaded and shared with the press. Press Review A compilation of recent press item including press coverage in newspapers, magazines, and online publications. Communication Material Key information about Gaia-X including our vision and mission, factsheets, and infographics. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Latest News Latest News April 9, 2024Gaia-X is delighted to announce the appointment of Alberto Palomoas the new Chief Strategy Officer, enhancing the management team of our AISBL. For the last two years, Alberto ha been chair... March 15, 2024The sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X Hub France in Paris brought together more than 200 participants, from industry leaders, and stakeholder to politician for a rich exchange of ideas.... March 7, 2024Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction You cannot stand anymore having to empty your pocket full of coin and random card (credit, loyalty, identity... February 28, 2024Join the sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X France Hub on Friday, 8 March 2024, from 9:00 - 16:00 CET. The event will be held at the Centre de confrence... February 27, 2024Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction You have just landed and cannot wait to rush into the sea to start your holiday .... All News SectorFilter - AllBlog ArticlesInterviewsNews Release April 9, 2024 Gaia-X is delighted to announce the appointment of Alberto Palomoas the new Chief Strategy Officer, enhancing the manag... March 15, 2024 The sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X Hub France in Paris brought together more than 200 participants, from indu... March 8, 2024 Part of the Gaia-X Voices: Women in Tech campaign Giuditta Del Buono, Technical Product Manager at Gaia-X, discus her... March 7, 2024 Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction Yo... March 6, 2024 Part of the Gaia-X Voices: Women in Tech campaign Inspired by pioneer like Marie Curie or Ada Lovelace, Martine Gouriet... March 4, 2024 Part of the Gaia-X Voices: Women in Tech campaign Martina Le Gall Malkov, President of the Industrial Innovation Clust... March 1, 2024 Part of the Gaia-X Voices: Women in Tech, an interview with Marine de Sury, Mission Director, Cigref & Coordinator, ... February 28, 2024 Join the sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X France Hub on Friday, 8 March 2024, from 9:00 16:00 CET. The ... February 27, 2024 Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction Yo... Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Press Releases Press Releases April 22, 2024Munich, 22 April 2024 Industry and business are in the midst of radical change: sustainability, resilience and securing competitiveness are determining the strategic direction of companies. Investments in digitalization... March 19, 2024Brussels, Belgium, 19 March 2024 The Market-X Conference & Expo, organised in partnership with the Gaia-X Hub Germany took place on 12 March 2024 a part of the Data... March 7, 2024In an era where data is not just an asset but the cornerstone of innovation and strategic decision-making, The Data Spaces Symposium emerges a a pivotal gathering for industry leaders,... February 28, 2024Brussels, Belgium, 28 February 2024 After the resounding success of last year event in Vienna, Gaia-X will host the 2nd edition of the Market-X Conference & Expo in partnership... January 16, 202416 January 2024, Brussels, Belgium Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud is excited to host it European Parliament Reception on Tuesday, 23 January 2024. The event, co-hosted by... All Press Releases April 22, 2024 March 19, 2024 March 7, 2024 February 28, 2024 January 16, 2024 November 13, 2023 October 27, 2023 September 29, 2023 July 14, 2023 Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Press Review Press Review Weekly Press Review 11 - 18 March 4 - 11 March 26 February - 4 March 19 - 26 February 12 - 19 February 5 - 12 February 28 January - 5 February 22 - 29 January 15 - 22 January Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Communication Material Communication Material About Gaia-X: Established a a not-for-profit Association in 2021, Gaia-X brings together a broad range of organisation (large company and SMEs, developer and user of technology, industrial players, and member of academia) around one common goal: to boost the European data economy by enabling the creation of common data spaces, in full alignment with the objective of the EUs data strategy. To this end, Gaia-X focus on building a common standard for an open, transparent, and secure digital ecosystem that will serve a the basis for a new model of data infrastructure guaranteeing safe and trustworthy data exchange. Open to anyone but aligned with the European value of human-centricity, transparency, openness and sovereignty, Gaia-Xs ambition is to deliver unprecedented opportunity for innovative data-driven business model in the European Single Market, reducing the dependency from non-controllable technology while reflecting Europes need for data and cloud sovereignty.. Want to learn more about Gaia-X? . Interested in becoming a member of Gaia-X? ! Join a thriving network across Europe Making stride in navigating digital transformation! The Design Guidelines ensure visual consistency across print and digital material. This style guide is intended to help the hub team to design their website in the corporate design of Gaia-X, but still individually. It contains useful information on the use of fonts, colours, photo and the logo. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Events Events Looking forward to seeing u in action? Join our upcoming event and have your say on the digital economy of tomorrow! Find below our upcoming event together with the respective agenda and context to be discussed. Register today and stay-up-to-date. Featured Events May 23, 2024Tech-X Conference & Hackathon #7 is taking place 23-24 May, Luxembourg, in partnership with Gaia-X Hub Luxembourg Following the resounding success of our debut event in Bilbao, Spain, were teaming up with Gaia-X Hub Luxembourg to bring you an unmatched experience for the Gaia-X Tech-X Conference & Hackathon Awards, returning for... Upcoming Events Loading view. Views Navigation Event Views Navigation List Upcoming Upcoming Select date. May 2024 Wed 22 May 22 @ 08:00 - May 23 @ 17:00 CEST Join Gaia-X at Cloud Expo Europe Frankfurt 2024, Germany's leading cloud technology event where the convergence of IT infrastructure and innovation take centre stage. Don't miss the keynote address by [] Thu 23 Featured Featured May 23 @ 08:00 - May 24 @ 17:00 CEST Tech-X Conference & Hackathon #7 is taking place 23-24 May, Luxembourg, in partnership with Gaia-X Hub Luxembourg Following the resounding success of our debut event in Bilbao, Spain, were teaming [] Next Events Subscribe to calendar Past Events Filter CategoriesFilter - AllData Space EventsEU Funding EventsGeneral AssembliesHackathonsHub EventsOnboarding & EngagementOther EventsSummitsTech DivesPolicy RulesHannover Messe April 22, 2024 March 28, 2024 March 12, 2024 January 23, 2024 November 9, 2023 September 5, 2023 June 27, 2023 June 26, 2023 May 25, 2023 Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Welcome to Market-X Market-X Conference & Expo 2024 Following the success of last year event in Vienna, Gaia-X invite you to the 2nd edition of The Market-X Conference & Expo on 12 March 2024, part of the , 12-14 March 2024! This edition promise a dynamic showcase of up-and-running projects, user stories, and business cases, all powered by Gaia-X. This exclusive opportunity allows you to explore the Gaia-X Framework, the Gaia-X Digital Clearing House,experience the real-world impact of Gaia-X Up-and-Running Projects and gain insight from member successful stories. Maximise your experience in the Expo area, an inspiring environment designed for networking and community building within the Gaia-X ecosystem. Engage with industry leader and innovators, expanding your professional network and unlocking potential collaborations. AGENDA SPEAKERS PARTNERS Have a look at the Market-X pictures, video & presentations! Available below Acquire the latest industry knowledge Stay at the forefront of technological innovation by exploring the real-world impact of Gaia-X through up-and-running projects, user stories, and successful business cases. Networking and Collaboration Opportunities Market-X is your opportunity to engage with industry leaders, innovators, and peers, expanding your professional network and unlocking potential cross-industry collaborations. Learn from Successful Stories Hear directly from member who have successfully implemented Gaia-X projects, providing insight and practical knowledge that can inform and enhance your own initiatives. Be Part of a Larger Movement Market-X is part of the Gaia-X movement join u in creating an open ecosystem for data sharing and collaboration that will shape our life in the year to come. VENUE: Welcome to Darmstadtium, the distinguished venue for Market-X in Darmstadt! Renowned for it futuristic architecture, award-winning sustainability initiatives, and cutting-edge IT infrastructure, Darmstadtium stand a a unique gem in Germanys event landscape. Explore innovation in a setting that combine architectural brilliance with sustainable practice at Darmstadtium! Science and Congress Center Darmstadt GmbH & Co. KG, Schlossgraben 1, 64283 Darmstadt Picture credit to: Science and Congress Center Darmstadt Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Welcome to Market-X Connect people and idea to create the future with us! Market-X is the networking event of Gaia-X Project Verticals, Gaia-X Hubs and Gaia-X Lighthouse Projects. The Market-X Conference & Expo, organised by Gaia-X, will be held in the beautiful city of Vienna on 14 and 15 March 2023 and is an unbeatable networking event to discover and comprehend the Gaia-X Standards, generate enthralling Gaia-X community and join X-industry projects. Attending this event is highly valuable a you can gain a deep understanding of the Gaia-X projects, HUBs, verticals, and Lighthouses. Gaia-X Project offer an opportunity for you to collaborate with partners, get assistance on building products, or connect with technology company in order to begin utilising your Gaia-X Product. As a Start-Up, you can leverage the Gaia-X platform to interact with professional and supporters. Take this opportunity to understand the motivation of our member who are dedicated to developing the Gaia-X Framework. Make the most of this inspiring environment by expanding your network and forging connection with the Gaia-X community. Take advantage of this chance and explore the possibilities! AGENDA SPEAKERS PARTNERS Have a look at the Market-X picture & videos! Available below Experience the Innovation Community of the Future At Market-X, you can discover new way to collaborate with partner across industries, launch project that will shape the future of AI and data, and join a vibrant community of innovators. Start Cross-Industry Collaboration Market-X is your opportunity to start building cross-industry collaboration that will transform how we think about innovation. Connect with expert from all industry and explore possibility for collaboration. Network with Ease Networking at Market-X ha never been easier meet other attendee in person or virtually, build meaningful relationships, exchange ideas, and find new business opportunities. Be Part of a Larger Movement Market-X is part of the Gaia-X movement join u in creating an open ecosystem for data sharing and collaboration that will shape our life in the year to come. Market-X Exhibition All booth are now booked! VENUE: We will convene in the center of Vienna. This amazing modern venue offer a blend of historic features, like the ceiling fresco in the Jesuit Hall and large glass surface on the ground floor. This exquisite environment help make Aula der Wissenschaften one of Viennas top event locations.Our Gaia-X community need a place that can promote stylish communication and networking, and we believe we have found the perfect spot. Aula der Wissenschaften Die Eventlocation im Herzen Wiens Wollzeile 27A 1010, Wien Picture credit to: Aula der Wissenschaften More information about Vienna, click BOOK YOUR ACCOMODATION Book your accommodation in Vienna Novotel Wien City Sd Donau Visit website Special conference rate 165 per person/bight incl. breakfast Location: Radingerstrasse 2, 1020 Vienna,Austria For reservation send booking form to following contact:Miss Melanie Kainrath,Phone: +43 1 903 03 991,E-Mail: Ibis Wien Messe*** Visit Special conference rate 105 per person/bight incl. breakfast Location: Lassallestrasse 7a,1020 Vienna, Austria For reservation send booking form to following contact:Mrs. Nadine Kauer/Mr. Patrick Kgl,Phone: +43 1 217 700,E-Mail: Flemings Hotel Wien-City**** Visit website Special conference rate 170 per person/night incl. breakfast Location: Josefstdter Str. 10-12,1080 Vienna,Austria For reservation click Would you like to use our material to promote this event? Have a look at the Market-X Pomo Pack! Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Toggle navigation Gaia-Xcelerate! During the Gaia-X 4th Summit, you will have the opportunity to witness firsthand the remarkable progress made by Gaia-X and engage with industry leaders, experts, and innovator who are shaping the digital future. The event will feature inspiring keynotes, interactive workshops, and engaging panel discussions. Discover the latest insights, exchange ideas, and forge connection that will drive the next wave of digital transformation.Mark your calendar for 9-10 November and join u in the vibrant city of Alicante, Spain. Lets come together to celebrate the achievement of Gaia-X, explore the limitless possibility of cooperative digital ecosystems, and co-create a future where data is truly democratized. Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruselles, Belgium P.C. 1210 #GaiaX #Summit 2023 Follow u Gaia-Xcelerate Regain control of technology! THE FUTURE IS Gaia-X WE ARE UP AND RUNNING Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023 - All Rights Reserved Copyright @ Gaia-X 2022 - All Rights Reserved Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Welcome to Tech-X Connect with people, hack on real-life end-to-end scenarios, contribute to solution for current technological challenge and learn how to use existing technology during Tech-X Conference & Hackathon! This spring, join u at the in Bilbao, Spain, on 3 & 4 May 2023, organised by Gaia-X and the OSS Community at , in a thriving tech region of Europe, for a unique opportunity to explore a range of exciting topics, including the Gaia-X Digital Clearing House, confidential computing, ODRL, data exchange, data traceability, critical success factors, ontologies, and open-source technologies. You can choose from three exciting segment of the two-day Tech-X Conference & Hackathon to create a personalised experience that suit your interest and needs: 1. Tech-X Conference Demos and hands-on practical example of solving technical challenges. 2. Hackathon #6 Think It. Code It. Win It. Contribute to the implementation of real-life end-to-end scenario which leverage the Gaia-X Open-Source Software and the Trust Framework to win! 3. Technology Workshops Learn how to use the technology on which Gaia-X is built. Have a look at the Tech-X picture and videos! Available below HACKATHON AGENDA SPEAKERS PARTNERS Partnership Opportunities Get ready to shine at the Tech-X Conference & Hackathon #6 with our exclusive partnership packages! Partnering with Gaia-X is an amazing opportunity to showcase your organisation to a wide tech international audience. Each package come with it own set of benefit designed to maximise your exposure during the event. We have three unique option to choose from: Platinum, Gold, and Silver. No matter what your desired level of engagement is, we have got you covered. Do you want your organisation to be seen and recognised by everyone at the event? Do you want to be part of the Hackathon Jury? Do you want to be featured in press releases? Do you want to share your story in a magazine or record a podcast? Email u at . Increase the Gaia-X knowledge in the community, encourage collaboration and enable participant to make use of current open-source implementation and codebase. Develop tool that handle Self-Descriptions. Use and further develop the Gaia-X Compliance Service and Gaia-X Federation Services. Check & validate the state of Gaia-X (in regard to architecture, specifications, technology, process and general term & conditions) via creation of service offering and integration of use case leveraging the Gaia-X Architecture. VENUE: We will convene in the center of Bilbao. Azkuna Zentroa, previously known a Alhndiga Bilbao, is a multi-purpose venue located in the city of Bilbao, Spain. It wa designed by French designer Philippe Starck in collaboration with Thibaut Mathieu and wa opened to the public in stage between 18 May and 24 October 2010. Azkuna Zentroa Alhndiga Bilbao Arriqubar Plaza, 4, 48010 Bilbo, Bizkaia, Spain Picture credit to: Azkuna Zentroa Alhndiga Bilbao Would you like to promote this event? Have a look at the ! Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Welcome to Tech-X Conference & Hackathon #7 Connect with industry leaders, tackle real-world challenges, and gain hands-on experience with cutting-edge technologies. From insightful presentation to a two-day hackathon alongside the Gaia-X Open-Source community, there something for everyone. Following the resounding success of our debut event in Bilbao, Spain, were teaming up with to bring you an unmatched experience for the Gaia-X Tech-X Conference & Hackathon Awards, returning for it second edition on 23-24 May in Luxembourg! Aligned with Gaia-Xs 2024 strategy, our event aim to drive market readiness, deepen collaboration within the tech community, and leverage open-source solutions. This is your chance to dive deep, create impact, and validate Gaia-Xs architecture and specifications. Join u at the E to network with key players, from business to Gaia-X Lighthouse projects. We expect 400 participant and 100 hacker to attend the conference and hackathon. Registrations are now open! Partnership Opportunities Get ready to shine at the Tech-X Conference & Hackathon #7 with our exclusive partnership packages! Partnering with Gaia-X is an amazing opportunity to showcase your organisation to a wide tech international audience. Each package come with it own set of benefit designed to maximise your exposure during the event. We have three unique option to choose from: Platinum, Gold, and Silver. No matter what your desired level of engagement is, we have got you covered. Do you want your organisation to be seen and recognised by everyone at the event? Do you want to be part of the Hackathon Jury? Do you want to be featured in press releases? Do you want to share your story in a magazine or record a podcast? Email u at . Increase the Gaia-X knowledge in the community, encourage collaboration and enable participant to make use of current open-source implementation and codebase Develop tool that handle Gaia-X Credentials Use and further develop the Gaia-X Compliance Service Check & validate the state of Gaia-X (in regard to architecture, specifications, technology, process and general term & conditions) via creation of service offering and integration of use case leveraging the Gaia-X Architecture VENUE: The European Convention Center Luxembourg (ECCL) combine architectural brilliance, technical excellence, and environmental consciousness. Located centrally in Europe, it offer state-of-the-art meeting room and convenient access to the city center and airport via Luxembourgs free public transport system established in 2020. Entrance: Porte Hmicycle 1, rue du Fort Thngen, L-1499 Luxembourg Picture credit to: The European Convention Center Luxembourg Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Media Media Welcome to our Media page! This section contains our Publications, Magazines, our Podcasts, and the latest Video material. Stay up to date by surfing our user-friendly content. Publications Our Publications aimto provide an interdisciplinary forum for scholars, publishing professionals, scientists, researchers, innovative service providers, and many more to communicate original work surrounding the Gaia-X deliverables, but equally a range of topic that address and inform on current issues, risks, challenges, and best practices, surrounding the data space ecosystem and respective sectors, including policy, mobility, health, manufacturing and many more. Magazines The Gaia-X magazineis a biannual journal publishing the finest research in the data space ecosystem following our collaboration with our members, management board, board of director and external researchers. The magazine present original work characterised by multifaceted article of interdisciplinary interest, timeliness, accessibility, elegance, and surprising conclusions, aiming to provide rapid, authoritative, insightful, and arresting news and interpretation of topical and coming trend affecting our data space ecosystem. Podcasts Welcome to the Gaia-X podcast that take you on a captivating exploration of the ever-evolving world of technology and data. In this fast-paced digital age, where innovation and change are the norm, it crucial to stay informed and empowered. Join u a we dive deep into the latest trends, breakthroughs, and challenge shaping the tech industry. Videos In today fast-paced world, video ha emerged a a powerful tool for information dissemination. The visual element of video allows for the effective communication of ideas, enabling viewer to grasp concept quickly and easily.On this page you will find a range of highlighted Gaia-X videos. If you would like to see the full overview of Gaia-X videos, we invite you to visit our . Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Publications Publications Ranging from the Gaia-X specifications: Architecture, Trust Framework, Policy Rules, Compliance & Labeling to Community driven position & white papers, this section present some of the most impressive milestone & deliverables, publication and latest technical releases. Check them out! Gaia-X Specifications Please visit the for the HTML (browsable) version of the document The latest Trust framework, policy rule and labelling and the architecture document are now published and available in the above-mentioned link. November 14, 2023 November 9, 2023 November 9, 2023 December 2, 2022 December 2, 2022 December 2, 2022 December 2, 2022 December 2, 2022 May 25, 2022 Community Publications March 18, 2024 December 7, 2022 October 20, 2022 August 1, 2022 July 11, 2022 June 27, 2022 May 2, 2022 April 25, 2022 April 25, 2022 Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation The Gaia-X Magazine The Gaia-X Magazine The Gaia-X magazine is a biannual journal publishing the finest research in the data space ecosystem following our collaboration with our members, management board, board of director and external researchers. The magazine present original work characterised by multifaceted article of interdisciplinary interest, timeliness, accessibility, elegance, and surprising conclusions, aiming to provide rapid, authoritative, insightful, and arresting news and interpretation of topical and coming trend affecting our data space ecosystem. The intention of the magazine is to engage our community, but equally bring new voice to address and discus the status, progress and significant advance in our delivery, lighthouses, hub work. It equally present an open forum for the reporting and discussion of news and issue concerning Gaia-X and esnure that the result are correctly and rapidly disseminated to the public throughout the world, in a fashion that conveys their significance for knowledge, science, research, culture, and daily life. Stay tuned for edition 4 of the Gaia-X magazine June 2024! Want to be part of this edition? As a community member, you can! We welcome your input a a Gaia-X Member, Hub or Lighthouse project. Members story Hub Highlights Lighthouse update Event Partners Are you interested to contribute to the upcoming edition? At the bottom of this page you will find more information about the requirement or click the button below to view the submission guidelines! The call for article is open until 17 May.If you have any questions, please feel free to contact u via IMPORTANT: As we have a limited amount of article we can accept, we encourage you to confirm your submission a soon a possible by sending an email to including the topic of your article and the name of the author. Edition 3 December 2023 Read our latest edition! Meet Ulrich Ahle, Gaia-Xs New CEO In the third edition of the Gaia-X Magazine we would like to introduce you to Ulrich Ahle, Gaia-Xs new CEO. Ulrich shed a light on the future strategy and challenge and opportunity that lay ahead. In addition you will find a wide range of topics, covering the latest industry trends, community updates, and upcoming events. Happy reading! This edition can be fully accessed online. Click the button below to read the full magazine. Edition 2 May 2023 Women in the Technology Sector In this edition we speak with Antonietta Mastroianni, Chief Digital & IT Officer at Proximus, about her experience a a woman in the technology sector. We also learn about the latest trend and topic within our community, speak with the Gaia-X Market-X partner and discus past and upcoming events. This edition can be accessed via the Gaia-X member platform. Click the button below to read the teaser or access the full magazine. Edition 1 June 2022 Together Towards a Sovereign European Data Infrastructure In this inaugural edition we dive into the Gaia-X vision and mission to reflect on what ha been achieved so far. In addition, we talk about the European right and principles, talk about enabling sector specific data, hear from the Gaia-X Hubs and Lighthouses and learn how to use our data. This edition can be fully accessed online. Click the button below to read the full magazine. Call for Articles Stay tuned for the 4th edition of the Gaia-X magazine in June 2024! The call for article is open until 17 May 2024. Who can contribute to the Gaia-X Magazine? Gaia-X Members Tell your story a a Gaia-X Member. Why did you choose to become a Gaia-X Member? What are you working on and how doe it relate to the Gaia-X Vision and Mission? 1500 Characters or 250 word article (1/2 A4) 3 picture / illustration Gaia-X Hubs Give our reader an update on the latest development and topic your national Hub is working on. What are the issue and solution discussed from your national perspective? 3000 Characters or 500 word article (1 A4) 5 picture / illustration Gaia-X Lighthouse Projects Tell u about the progress made and latest topic discussed in your project! What are the latest development to create adata exchange platform built on transparency, trust, and openness. 3000 Characters or 500 word article (1 A4) 5 Pictures / Illustrations Gaia-X Event Partners Are you involved in a Gaia-X event a a partner? We would love to learn about your insights, what you are currently working on and why you think it is important to collaborate with the Gaia-X community? Amount of Characters depending on partnership type (Between 1500 character or 250 word 1/2 A4 and 3000 character or 500 word 1 A4-) Amount of picture / illustration depending on partnership type Interested in becoming a partner for the Gaia-X Summit 2023? Find out more on the or contact Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Gaia-X Podcasts Podcasts Welcome! Interested to hear from the actual expert surrounding Gaia-X? Do you equally feel that Gaia-X is the most inspiring and aspiring initiative of our generation and shaping the digital economy of tomorrow? Are you one of these peoplethatstruggle to understand Gaia-X, but still wish to understand more? Welcome to the Gaia-X podcast that take you on a captivating exploration of the ever-evolving world of technology and data. In this fast-paced digital age, where innovation and change are the norm, it crucial to stay informed and empowered. Join u a we dive deep into the latest trends, breakthroughs, and challenge shaping the tech industry. So, grab your headphones, buckle up, and get ready for an exciting journey into the world of technology and data. Lets unravel the digital world together! All our Podcast Episodes are available on RSS.com, Spotify and YouTube. Check out our Podcast Series Event Series With our event series we aim to reflect on Gaia-X event and discus latest topic and trend in the world of Data en Technology. Gaia-X Unclouded Join u a we bring you the latest project insights, updates, and development straight from the people working within Gaia-X. Interview Series Find out more about Gaia-X and it community by listening to the Interviews with Gaia-X insider and community members. Featured Episodes Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect at Gaia-X: The new Gaia-X Academy In this episode Julien Vanwambeke take u through the recently launched Gaia-X Academy. We learn more about why the Academy wa created, what course are provided and how to access. Find out more on our website: Alessandra Perna & Petra Makovec, Gaia-X COO team: Gaia-X Lighthouse project and the new endorsement programme In this episode Alessandra Perna and Petra Makovec take u through the recently launched Gaia-X Endorsement Programme and discus what it mean to be a Gaia-X Lighthouse Project. Learn more about the latest development at Gaia-X, the importance of Lighthouse Projects within the Gaia-X community and how the new Endorsement programme work in practice. Women in Tech: Ana Garcia Robles Secretary General at the Big Data Value Association (BDVA) In this special episode, a part of the Gaia-X: Women in Tech campaign, we speak withAna Garcia Robles, Secretary General at the Big Data Value Association (BDVA). As we dive into the topic of woman in tech we learn about the role of woman in the industry. Ulrich Ahle, CEO of Gaia-X: The updated Gaia-X strategic plan Ulrich Ahle joined Gaia-X a the new CEO in October 2023. Shortly after, during the Gaia-X Summit in November, Ulrich presented his updated Strategic plan for Gaia-X. On this episode he take u through the Strategic plan and how it will be implemented. In addition, we will learn about the milestone Gaia-X ha reach so far and what we can expect from Gaia-X in 2024. Women in Tech: Catherine Jestin Chairwomen of the Gaia-X Board of Directors In this special episode, a part of the Gaia-X: Women in Tech campaign, we speak withCatherine Jestin, Chairwoman of the Board of Directors and Vice President of Digital and Information Management at Airbus. As we dive into the topic of woman in tech we learn about the role of woman in the industry and why diversity is important for productivity. Listen to our Gaia-X Podcast Epsiodes All our podcasts episode are also available on RSS.com, YouTube and Spotify. If you would like to listen to the episode directly on this page, you can just click on the play icon next to each episode. If you would like to listen on RSS, you can click on the episode title below. Enjoy! Event Series With our event series we aim to reflect on Gaia-X event and discus latest topic and trend in the world of Data en Technology. SEASON 1 2024 Gaia-X Unclouded Join u a we bring you the latest project insights, updates, and development straight from the people working within Gaia-X. Interview Series Find out more about Gaia-X and it community by listening to the Interviews with Gaia-X insider and community members. SEASON 2 2024 SEASON 1 2022 Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Videos Videos Welcome In today fast-paced world, video ha emerged a a powerful tool for information dissemination. The visual element of video allows for the effective communication of ideas, enabling viewer to grasp concept quickly and easily. On this page you will find a range of highlighted Gaia-X videos. If you would like to see the full overview of Gaia-X videos, we invite you to visit our YouTube channel. Time to press play! So sit back, relax, and let our video transport you to the world of Data and Technology. Gaia-X Videos Gaia-X ha a wide range of video and we are constantly working on new video to engage our audience. Our video can mainly be categorized a Educational & Training videos, Promotional video and Event recordings. If you are a Gaia-X community member looking for member specific info, we provide multiple video tutorial that will take you though certain process step-by-step. Looking for Gaia-X Tutorials? Scroll down to the bottom if this page and click the button to access our member platform. On you page you will find our highlighted videos, for a full overview visit our . Up and Coming videos! Summit 2023 Promo video, GXDCH explainer video & Gaia-X short clip Event Recordings Every year Gaia-X host a wide range of event where it community can share their knowledge and expertise. In 2023 Gaia-X host multiple large and small scale event Data Spaces series (online), Market-X, Tech-X, Hackathon, Hub workshops, Summit 2023 to name a few. In this section you will find the link to our event recordings, which are also available on our . Educational & Training video Whether youre looking to understand what Gaia-X is aiming to achieve or how it work from a technical perspective, our collection of educational & Training video are here to make it easy for you. Through concise and captivating animations, our video break down complex subject into easily digestible bites, ensuring that you grasp the key concept effortlessly. Here you will find our highlighted Educational & Training videos. For the full overview visit our . Promotional video With it ability to combine visuals, audio, and storytelling, video hold the unique power to engage, captivate, and inform audience like no other medium. A perfect tool for promotion!Every year Gaia-X host and participates in a wide range range of events. To promote event we create promotional video to engage the audience and inform them about an upcoming event. Here you will find our highlighted promo videos. For the full overview we invite your to visit our . Gaia-X Tutorials Are you a Gaia-X community member? On our Gaia-X Members Platform we have a wide range of tutorial video available that will take you through certain process step-by-step. You can access the member platform by clicking the button below. If you have any question about the tutorial or on how to access the member platform, feel free to contact u via Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Membership Membership Many member organisation from all across the world make up the Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL. Companies, associations, research institutions, administrations, and government official have come together to work on a groundbreaking project for the digital economy of tomorrow: Gaia-X. The original 22 member organisation have now blossomed to more than 340 member organisations. Members Directory Wishing to know which are the member that have entrusted u and are now part of our crew? Check them out here! Why join? Looking to understand why you should even join Gaia-X? Just click below! How to join Do you wish to join Gaia-X? Follow these 4 step and off you go! Join Gaia-Xs Members Platform Are you a current or new member and wish to collaborate with Gaia-X in real time? How about looking further and contributing to our Members Platform? Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Members Directory Members Directory 326 Current total # of member 21 Membership increase since 2021* -- Country membership increase since 2021** * Counting since the 7th of June 2021 when the first (Extraordinary) General Assembly took place and initial membership were approved ** Please select a country from the menu below to see the related % increase Search Directory Category Distance Range Radius: KM Status Loading... Number Of Members: 0 Store Direction Get Your Directions From: To: KM Mile GET DIRECTIONS Use my location to find the closest Service Provider near me USE LOCATION Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Why Join? Why join? Gaia-X welcome all firm and organisations, from the user or provider side to collaborate and join force in order to construct the next EUs aspiring generation of data space infrastructure. Every member can engage in working group to define and contribute to our roadmap, be it start-ups, SMEs, universities, public institutions, and large enterprises. We are looking forward to welcoming you and joining our force in a common direction for the greater good, shaping our future! Contribute to a pioneering project that will establish digital autonomy for Europe. Shape how data will be stored, shared, and used in future. Develop new data-driven business model and data spaces. Strengthen tie to the expert community in your industry. Contribute to a pioneering project that will establish digital sovereignty for Europe. Shape how data will be stored, shared, and used in future. Develop new data-driven business model and data spaces. Strengthen tie to the expert community in your industry. Whats in it for me Users and Providers Together, Users and Providers, work on use case and business project and the federation of user and providers, thus creating value for all participant that cooperate to exchange, aggregate, and analyse data. Start-ups & SMEs (Small-Medium Enterprises) By the federated model start-ups and SMEs among all participating organisation gain visibility and the critical mass they need to create value out of data. Together with large enterprise of user and providers, the SME ecosystem can gain a broader market reach, providing a market differentiator thanks to the trust they obtain through Gaia-X deliverables, such a the label and the open-source reference software. Civil Society Gaia-X will mark a new era of Data Ethics awareness in the mindset of people, thus accelerating our effort to develop a new generation of platform and service offer that adhere to the common principle and value adopted. Join Gaia-X to Lay the foundation Get exclusive access to technological development, decision-making, and consultation procedures. Shape the future Participate actively in the working group and committee within the Association. Join the Data Spaces Participate in the Data Space Business Committees ecosystem and become a part of the future European Data Space. Lay the foundation Get exclusive access to technological development, decision-making, and consultation procedures. Shape the future Participate actively in the working group and committee within the Association. Join the Data Spaces Participate in the Data Space Business Committees vertical ecosystem and become a part of the future European Data Space. Join the Data Spaces Participate in the Data Space Business Committees vertical ecosystem and become a part of the future European Data Space. Exchange Knowledge & Network Fully access all collaboration platforms, onboarding and news member webinars, helping you to learn more about Gaia-X activities, benefits, and updates. Exchange Knowledge & Network Fully access all collaboration platforms, onboarding and news member webinars, helping you to learn more about Gaia-X activities, benefits, and updates. Stay informed Learn about Gaia-X lighthouse project and follow the activity managed at National level by Gaia-X Hubs. Get in the Communication groove Join u for a series of sector-specific data events, tech dives, EU funding events, and DSBA alliance events; reserve a speaking slot, participate in podcasts, submit a blog to our blog series, or an article to our magazine, and fully immerse yourself in the data space ecosystem direction. Exchange Knowledge & Network Fully access all collaboration platforms, onboarding and news member webinars, helping you to learn more about Gaia-X activities, benefits, and updates. Stay informed Learn about Gaia-X lighthouse project and follow the activity managed at National level by Gaia-X Hubs. Get in the Communication groove Join u for a series of sector-specific data events, tech dives, EU funding events, and DSBA alliance events; reserve a speaking slot, participate in podcasts, submit a blog to our blog series, or an article to our magazine, and fully immerse yourself in the data space ecosystem direction. Stay informed Learn about Gaia-X lighthouse project and follow the activity managed at National level by Gaia-X Hubs. Get in the Communication groove Join u for a series of sector-specific data events, tech dives, EU funding events, and DSBA alliance events; reserve a speaking slot, participate in podcasts, submit a blog to our blog series, or an article to our magazine, and fully immerse yourself in the data space ecosystem direction. My Benefits The member of the Association get exclusive access to the technical development, the decision making and technical consultation process by taking an active role in the working group and committee within the Association. As an exclusive benefit, all member have access to all collaboration platforms, the intranet, sector data specific events, EU Funding events, Hackathons, tech deep dives, and onboarding webinars among others, fully immersing to the Gaia-X sphere, openly sharing their experience and deeply networking with the public and private sectors. On an equal merit, Gaia-X member receive monthly newsletter on the operational, technical, funding and communication activity throughout the year. They equally receive funding opportunity at European and National levels; liaise and receive support from the Gaia-X project and proposal office and enable their consortium by finding the best partners. Being a Member of Gaia-X equally mean liaising directly with the Gaia-X Communications department; customising their 360-level communication campaign and enabling their presence and promotion through a series of campaigns, events, social media, press releases, video testimonials, articles, podcasts, blog and magazine articles. Finally, all member receive exclusive invite to sponsor the Gaia-X Summit, the Data Space Events, the Magazine and Podcasts all bringing massive and long-term medium coverage and support to their work and efforts. A list of these benefit may be seen below. Participate in a community of practice, expertise and knowledge transfer, learn and exchange. Interact with Gaia-X member through our platform (intranet) for new collaboration and projects! In progress Share your story by participating in speaking slots, interviews, blog series, or editorial piece at our sector-specific data space events, the Gaia-X Magazine, the Gaia-X podcast series, our Hackathons, and EU Funding webinars, The Summit series, and others. Learn more about our funding partnership opportunities, which are available on a first-come, first-served basis, and take advantage of a special communication campaign. Receive monthly communication on relevant funding opportunity at European and National levels, from basic requirement to evaluation criteria. Strengthen the Hubs Network by collaborating on tender and encouraging partnerships. Share your project with the PPO to receive an endorsement for your proposal, through a support or recommendation letter! For more information on the endorsement process, please contact u . Currently in progress, the team is working on a knowledge base across most important documentation. At a later point in time, we will aim to enable a match-making set up to find the best partner among Gaia-X member and collaborate to build consortium together. Co-organise your , webinars, workshop alongside Gaia-X. Co-create a dedicated social medium campaign to inform about your news, activities, and event throughout the year, following the release. State your presence through various statements, quotes, testimonial and throughout the year. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation How to join How to join Become a member in 4 step Would you like to play an active role in how Gaia-X develops in the future? Whether you are a large company, an SME, a start-up, an association or a research institute, we would like to hear from you. 01 Use our and let u know that you are interested in becoming a member or contact . 02 We will email you the document you need to fill out for your application. 03 Fill in the document and send them back to u by email. 04 We will come back to you with the decision taken by the Board of Directors. Ways to join 350+ member Association The Gaia-X Association is a non-profit organization that represents all of it member and promotes international cooperation. Its objective is to create a common foundation for data ecosystem for user and provider across all industries. 348+ member Association The Gaia-X Association is a non-profit organization that represents all of it member and promotes international cooperation. Its objective is to create a common foundation for data ecosystem for user and provider across all industries. 15 EU Hubs, 2 International Hub The Gaia-X Hubs act a the voice of user ecosystem on the national level. Their main objective are to develop ecosystems, to bundle national initiatives, and to provide a central point of contact to interested party in their respective countries. 15 EU Hubs, 2 International Hub The Gaia-X Hubs act a the voice of user ecosystem on the national level. Their main objective are to develop ecosystems, to bundle national initiatives, and to provide a central point of contact to interested party in their respective countries. Community The Gaia-X Community comprises the entire Gaia-X network. Users and provider collaborate on the basis of Data Space Events, Hackathons, Techdives, Onboarding Webinars, Community Newsflashes and Summits. Everyone is welcome to join the Community and contribute to the establishment of a federated data infrastructure. 6+ Work Packages Community The Gaia-X Community comprises the entire Gaia-X network. Users and provider collaborate on the basis of Data Space Events, Hackathons, Techdives, Onboarding Webinars, Community Newsflashes and Summits. Everyone is welcome to join the Community and contribute to the establishment of a federated data infrastructure. Who can join Gaia-X? "It is exciting to help shape Europes digital future. In the Communication Taskforce, we convey complex idea through clear message -thats key to reaching the widest possible awareness. I am delighted to be part of it!"Juan Giron, Communication Taskforce Gaia-X Association, Amadeus "We urgently need a mindset shift about innovation and digitalization in Europe. Gaia-X a a trusted ecosystem provides the ideal foundation for digital transformation in Europe."Dr. Sabine Wilfling, Gaia-X Hub Germany, Scheer Holding Germany "With Gaia-X, I support a project that establishes core European value in data sharing on cloud platforms. This standard for cloud and data sovereignty should be applied worldwide. In perspective, it will be used by every cloud platform in ten years."Prof. Dr. Boris Otto, Board of Directors Gaia-X Association, Fraunhofer ISST und TU Dortmund "Gaia-X creates sovereign multi-cloud storage standard that enable the implementation of data sharing services. Blockchain Certified Data's research work is an important part of this, which is why I am happy to be contributing to the project."Luc Jarry-Lacombe, Gaia-X Hub France, Blockchain Certified Data We are looking for both user and provider to participate in the project. The success of Gaia-X depends largely on user-driven demand and the definition of user requirements. We are also looking for company and organisation from different industry representing the user perspective. The contribution of technological companies, including providers, is key to the development of the technical concept. Discover additional info . Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Members Platform Members Platform Gaia-X Members Only! We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new membership platform! Our platform ha been designed to be your one-stop shop for all thing related to your membership with us. We invite you to log in to explore exclusive content related to the association and the community. How to login? An account on Gaia-Xs new Member Platform ha been created for you. To activate it, please follow this . After accessing the link, click on Retrieve Password to create a password that will allow you to access the Member Platform. Access to the member platform is restricted to Gaia-X members. If you are a member and get log-in errors, please contact . Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation What we are Gaia-X is an initiative that develops, based on European values, a digital governance that can be applied to any existing cloud/ edge technology stack to obtain transparency, controllability, portability and interoperability across data and services. Gaia-X is not a market operator, nor will it operate directly or exclusively any of the service required by the governance. Why we do it The future of our economy is driven by digital economy, a new way to build value on top of the existing physical ecosystem, products, and services, using data. This is achieved through the collection and exchange of data across the multiple participant and organisation in the value chain. The exchange of data across organisation is currently constrained by proprietary, non-transparent, non-interoperable technology that do not provide the necessary level of trust. Our concept of sovereignty translates into the autonomy and self-determination user need to operate their technology choices. Gaia-X enables and boost the creation of Data Spaces through trusted platform that comply with common rules, allowing user and provider to trust each other on an objective technological basis, to safely and freely share and exchange data across multiple actors. 1800 Contributors 300 Members 1 Goal Latest news April 22, 2024 Munich, 22 April 2024 Industry and business are in the midst of radical change: sustainability, resilience and securin... April 9, 2024 Gaia-X is delighted to announce the appointment of Alberto Palomoas the new Chief Strategy Officer, enhancing the manag... March 19, 2024 Brussels, Belgium, 19 March 2024 The Market-X Conference & Expo, organised in partnership with the Gaia-X Hub Germ... March 15, 2024 The sixth plenary session organised by Gaia-X Hub France in Paris brought together more than 200 participants, from indu... March 7, 2024 In an era where data is not just an asset but the cornerstone of innovation and strategic decision-making, The Data Spac... March 7, 2024 Authors: Julien Vanwambeke, Functional Architect, Gaia-X and Vincent Kelleher, Software Engineer, Gaia-X Introduction Yo... Read more about our latest news and development Use Cases High-quality Gastric Cancer & lesion data set accessble by researcher everywhere, allow for further clinical research, new, innovative diagnostic methods, better risk assessment and preventive measures. A european platform that help to identify risk with AI through surgical video and data storage Intelligent planning of road maintenance measure in Southern Tyrol Featured Events May 23, 2024 Contributors "Gaia-X, a an association, ha achieved a lot over the last two year and is, now, able to deliver a consistent Trust and Federation framework. Moreover, it now find itself at a pivotal juncture, poised to make a significant impact in the Cloud market. I am delighted to be involved in addressing the forthcoming challenge a Chairwoman of the organisation and contributing to Gaia-X's ongoing journey towards operational reality."Chairwoman of the Gaia-X's BoD & Executive Vice President Digital and Information Management at Airbus "To enable user to retain control over their data, we call for European data sovereignty especially over production and industrial data. By participating in Gaia-X, I am doing my part to support this valuable, forward-looking initiative."Harald A. Summa, Gaia-X AISBL Board of Directors, DE-CIX "A federated data infrastructure and horizontal data exchange are crucial for the European recovery and renewal. The future is built together and requires joint activity - therefore I am delighted to participate in Gaia-X."Lars Albck, Gaia-X Hub Finland, Vastuu Group "It is great to be involved in such a unique initiative that will change the way we handle our data fundamentally. The Federation Services, a foundation of the federated data infrastructure, will enable u to connect in an interoperable and legally compliant way."Emma Wehrwein, Gaia-X Federation Services, eco e.V. Join Gaia-X Find out how you can become part of Gaia-X and benefit from joining us. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Legal Documents Legal Documents for Gaia-X Events Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Sitemap Sitemap Pages Events Posts by category Category: Category: Category: Category: Category: Category: Publications Use Cases Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Newsletter registration Newsletter registration Want regular update on Gaia-X in your inbox? Then register for our newsletter Do you want to know more about Gaia-X? Find our latest update in the Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation RSS Feeds RSS Feeds Feed Categories Please note that in order to subscribe to an RSS feed above, a separate RSS Reader application (browser add-on/ software or mobile app) need to be installed on your device. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Imprint Imprint Address Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 1210 Bruxelles/Brussels Belgium Chief Executive Officer Urlich Ahle Legal Information Enterprise number: 0762747721 ID number in the Transparency Register: 586442542543-61 VAT number: VAT BE 0762.747.721 Responsible for comms & content Gaia-X Communication Team E-Mail: Copyright for image used on the website (if not indicated otherwise) Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Introduction to our Privacy Policy We, Gaia-X, European Association for Data and Cloud, (Gaia-X), take the protection of your personal data very seriously, and we strictly comply with the regulation of the data protection statutes. This privacy policy provides information about what kind of personal data we collect and hold, how and for what purpose we collect and store this information, how you can access it and some other important matters. This policy applies to the personal information that we collect and further process from all user of the website, subscriber to our newsletter and job applicant for one of Gaia-Xs job offers. Purposes for which we collect, hold, use and disclose personal information We collect, hold, use and disclose personal information in order to: Operate, maintain and support the website. Store and process personal information in our CRM system. Use personal information to send you the Gaia-X newsletter if you subscribed. Process your job application if you applied for one of our jobs. Comply with our legal and regulatory obligations. Any other reason with your consent to the disclosure or for which we provide you with the required notice. What kind of information do we collect and for what purpose? We collect the following information: Surfing on this website Gaia-X gather and automatically store log file information on t a third party dedicated web server, which your browser deposited with u while you were surfing. The key data that we store may include: Type of browser/browser version Type of device used Number of Visits Average length of a visit Bounce rate Actions performed (e. g. clicking on element or external links) Location / IP address (anonymised) The data is saved through Google Analytics and your IP address is automatically anonymised. It is saved for a period of 38 month (in Googles databases) and will be automatically deleted after this period. Contact Forms On our website, you have the option of getting in contact with u via several contact forms. The information you impart via the contact form is usually: First name Last name Email-address Company Companys location The personal data imparted to u will be used exclusively for the purpose of processing your enquiry. Your data will be stored in our SuperOffice CRM system and will be deleted after processing your query. Some of the forms, here & here store submission data in the website database that we delete periodically or immediately Newsletter Subscription If you subscribe to our Newsletter, we will use the following information to send periodic email regarding products, services, general information about Gaia-X a well a for marketing purpose if you subscribed to the Gaia-X newsletter. Your data will be stored in our SuperOffice CRM system. First name Last name Email-address Job Advertisements We also publish job advertisement on our website. When you apply for a vacancy at Gaia-X, we will collect and process your personal data a a job applicant. This may include: First name Last name Address Email-address and telephone number Details of your qualifications, skills, experience and employment history Any other information in your application you choose to share with u (e.g. hobbies) We kindly request that you only submit personal data about yourself in your job application or CV or other relevant material you choose to provide to us, to the extent such information is relevant for the specific position you are applying for. For this reason, please consider whether there is any personal information, such a health information, information on family relation or similar, that is not necessary for Gaia-Xs recruitment process. Your information may be shared internally for the purpose of the recruitment exercise. This includes member of the Human Resources and recruitment team and interviewer involved in the recruitment process. When you gave your consent we may contact reference that you supply to us, a well a former employers, academic institution and credentialing or licensing organization to help u evaluate and confirm your qualification for employment opportunity atGaia-X. This will necessarily involve a limited disclosure of your personal information to those individual or entities. Your data will be processed and stored on our email account and server provided and operated by 1&1 IONOS SE in Germany. If your application is unsuccessful, we will hold your data for a period of six month after the end of the relevant recruitment process. This is necessary for the burden of proof in the event of a legal claim. We will delete your data after this period of time. If your application is successful, personal data gathered during the recruitment process will be transferred to your Human Resources file on our server and retained during your employment. What is the legal basis for our collection and further processing of your personal information? We collect and process personal information from you: Where we have your consent according to Art. 6 Sec. 1 S. 1 lit. a) GDPR Where the processing is in our legitimate interest and not overridden by your data protection interest or fundamental right and freedom according to Art. 6 Sec. 1 S. 1 lit f) GDPR. Our legitimate interest when processing the data listed in clause 4 includes the following purposes: Processing youenquiries you sent within the contact form Ensuring a seamless establishment of the connection Ensuring the comfortable use of our website Assessing the system security and stability Our legitimate interest may include contacting you for information about transferring your data and operational process of the website. Where the processing is necessary in order to take step at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract according to Art. 6 Sec. 1 S. 1 lit. b) GDPR. This includes assessing and processing your job application (administration of the recruitment process and evaluation of the application) and contacting you in this regard. If you have question about or need further information concerning the legal basis on which we collect and use your personal information, please contact u using the contact detail provided under the How to contact u heading below. Online presence and website optimization Social Media Plugins Based on Art. 6 Sec. 1 S. 1 lit. f) GDPR, we place plugins for the social network Twitter, LinkedIn, Facebook, YouTube and the Gaia-X Member Network Nextcloud (???) on our website, which lead to the Gaia-X profile of these social networks. The responsibility for the data protection compliant operation is to be guaranteed by each provider respectively. We do not control the collection or further processing of personal information related to your use of the Gaia-X Website that may be undertaken by third party like Twitter LinkedIn, Facebook or YouTube through your use of their login functions. We therefore strongly suggest that you review their privacy policies, term of service and privacy controls. With this in mind: You can review Twitters andby clicking on the link provided. You can review LinkedInsandby clicking on the link provided. You can review Facebooksandby clicking on the link provided. You can review YouTubesand by clicking on the link provided. In connection with above you need to be aware that we do not control, and do not accept responsibility or liability for, the privacy policy of, and use of personal information by, any party other than us. This includes any user of our website, the operator of any website to which our website links, or third party Service Providers to whom you directly provide your personal information to. We therefore also strongly encourage you to review these entity privacy policies, term of service and privacy controls. Links to and from external Websites Our website contains link to external website run by other organizations. This privacy policy applies only to our website not those external website that we link to, who will have their own privacy policies. We are not responsible for these external website and their privacy policy and practices. We therefore also strongly encourage you to review these entity privacy policies, term of service and privacy controls. Cookies Our website us so-called cooky at numerous point that are necessary to ensure the proper functioning of our website. In order to manage our cooky we use the service (plugin) . The use of these cooky take place based on Art. 6 Sec. 1 S. 1 lit. f) of the GDPR. Our interest in optimizing is thereby to be seen a legitimate in the sense of the aforementioned regulation. In all other cases, we ask you for your consent, which allows u to set further cooky (analysis cookies, marketing cookies). No cooky are set (except required/essential cookies) without giving consent. See our Cookies Policy Page for more information! Cookies are small text file that are automatically generated by your browser and saved on your device (laptop, tablet, smartphone, etc.). Cookies do not cause any damage to your device and they do not contain any viruses, Trojans, or other malware. In the cookie, information is stored which result from the connection with each specific device respectively. However, this doe not mean that we gain any direct knowledge regarding your identity. Cookies can be used to store different information. The use of cooky also serf the purpose of improving the user experience of our internet presence. We therefore use so-called session cooky in order to recognize that you have already visited individual page on our website. These are deleted automatically after the end of your visit. In addition to this, also for the purpose of increasing user-friendliness, we make use of temporary cooky that are saved on your device for a specific period of time. When you visit our website again, it will be automatically recognized that you have visited the site previously, and what input you made or setting you activated, so that you do not have to input them again. Further information can be found in our , where you can also change or withdraw your consent at any time. You can also change the cookie setting by clicking on the link Cookie Configuration placed at the bottom (footer) of all the page in our website. Google Analytics Our website us Google Analytics that save cooky on your computer. Those cooky enable u to analyze your use of the website and monitor performance. We use this information to provide a high-quality experience through identifying and fixing issues, improving performance, and highlighting the most popular content based on the interest of the visitor derived through statistical analysis. For this purpose, user information generated through the cookie (including your abbreviated IP address) is transferred to Googles server and stored for the purpose of analysing website usage, which support our website optimization. Your IP address is immediately anonymized in this process, so that you remain anonymous to u a a user.. If you do not agree with the storage and analysis of data from your visit, you can prevent Google Analytics cooky from being used by activating the corresponding setting in your browser software or use the by Google. However, note that fully disabling cooky in your browser may result in your not being able to make complete use of all function on this website. Additionally, you can dissent to the storage and analysis at any time by clicking on the link Cookie Configuration placed at the bottom (footer) of all the page in our website and disabling the statistic cooky through the preference panel. In this case, Google Analytics will stop tracking your visit, the script required for it function will cease to function and Google will collect no data from your session on this website. Your data protection right You have the following data protection rights: If you wish to access, correct, update or request deletion of your personal information, you can do so at any time by contacting u using the contact detail provided under the How to contact u heading at the end of this policy (Art. 16 and 17 GDPR). In addition, you can object to processing of your personal information, ask u to restrict processing of your personal information (Art. 18 GDPR) or request portability of your personal information (Art. 20 GDPR). Again, you can exercise these right by contacting u using the contact detail provided under the How to contact u heading at the end of this policy. You have the right to opt-out of our newsletter we send you at any time. You can exercise this right by clicking on the unsubscribe link in the marketing e-mail we send you. Similarly, if we have collected and process your personal information with your consent, then you can withdraw your consent at any time (Art. 21 GDPR) by either using the tool provided on the platform or by contacting u using the contact detail provided under the How to contact u heading at the end of this policy. Withdrawing your consent will not affect the lawfulness of any processing we conducted prior to your withdrawal, nor will it affect processing of your personal information conducted in reliance on lawful processing ground other than consent. You have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal information. For more information, please contact your local data protection authority. We respond to all request we receive from individual wishing to exercise their data protection right in accordance with applicable data protection laws. Who do we share your personal information with? The data collected by u will not be sold. We provide information that we obtain to third party exclusively to the extent described in the following: Affiliated company We might share your personal information with affiliated company that are under the control of Gaia-X, if they are either subject to this Privacy Policy or adhere to guideline that offer at least a much protection a this Privacy Policy. Service provider We commission other company and individual to fulfill task for us. Examples include the sending of letter or emails, the maintenance of our contact lists, the analysis of our data base and marketing measure (including the making available of search result and links). These service provider have access to personal information that is necessary for fulfilling their tasks. However, they are not permitted to use this for other purposes. In addition to this, they are obligated to handle the information in accordance with this Privacy Policy and applicable data protection laws. SuperOffice CRM When you subscribe to our newsletter, on our behalf SuperOffice Customer Relationship Management (SuperOffice CRM) store the data you have entered for the sending of the newsletter. SuperOffice CRM will also only share your information with Gaia-X approved subcontractor to fulfill their contractual obligations. Beyond that, no passing on to third party will take place. SuperOffice CRM will also not contact you. SuperOffice CRM is our processor and act solely according to our specifications. Protection of Gaia-X and third party We disclose personal data when we are legally obliged to do so, or when such disclosure is necessary to protect our right and those of third parties. Recipients outside of the EU We do not forward your data to recipient with headquarters outside of the European Union or the European Economic Area. How to contact u We take our privacy obligation very seriously. If you have any questions, concern or think that we may have breached our privacy law obligations, we ask that you tell u by sending an email using the contact detail set out below. If you have any concern or think that we may have breached our privacy law obligations, we ask that you explain your reason in detail. We will investigate and aim to respond a soon a possible. We will try and work with you to resolve any concern or dispute. Please feel free to contact u through one of the following methods: Gaia-X AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 1210 Bruxelles/Brussels Belgium Changes to the Privacy Policy We may amend this policy from time to time, by publishing a new version on our website. You can see the date of the last revision at the beginning of this policy. All information held by u is governed by the latest version of this policy. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technology like cooky to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technology will allow u to process data such a browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain feature and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communication network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preference that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional record from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profile to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several website for similar marketing purposes. Accept Deny View preference Save preference Manage consent Loading... Skip link Search Filter by Custom Post Type Select all News Pages Podcasts Use Cases Publications Magazines Events Toggle navigation Cookie Policy Cookie Policy (EU) This Cookie Policy wa last updated on October 21, 2022 and applies to citizen and legal permanent resident of the European Economic Area and Switzerland.1. IntroductionOur website, (hereinafter: "the website") us cooky and other related technology (for convenience all technology are referred to a "cookies"). Cookies are also placed by third party we have engaged. In the document below we inform you about the use of cooky on our website.2. What are cookies?A cookie is a small simple file that is sent along with page of this website and stored by your browser on the hard drive of your computer or another device. The information stored therein may be returned to our server or to the server of the relevant third party during a subsequent visit.3. What are scripts?A script is a piece of program code that is used to make our website function properly and interactively. This code is executed on our server or on your device.4. What is a web beacon?A web beacon (or a pixel tag) is a small, invisible piece of text or image on a website that is used to monitor traffic on a website. In order to do this, various data about you is stored using web beacons.5. Cookies5.1 Technical or functional cookiesSome cooky ensure that certain part of the website work properly and that your user preference remain known. By placing functional cookies, we make it easier for you to visit our website. This way, you do not need to repeatedly enter the same information when visiting our website and, for example, the item remain in your shopping cart until you have paid. We may place these cooky without your consent.5.2 Statistics cookiesWe use statistic cooky to optimise the website experience for our users. With these statistic cooky we get insight in the usage of our website.We ask your permission to place statistic cookies.5.3 Marketing/Tracking cookiesMarketing/Tracking cooky are cooky or any other form of local storage, used to create user profile to display advertising or to track the user on this website or across several website for similar marketing purposes.5.4 Social mediaOn our website, we have included content from Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn to promote web page (e.g. like, pin) or share (e.g. tweet) on social network like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. This content is embedded with code derived from Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn and place cookies. This content might store and process certain information for personalised advertising.Please read the privacy statement of these social network (which can change regularly) to read what they do with your (personal) data which they process using these cookies. The data that is retrieved is anonymised a much a possible. Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn are located in the United States.6. Placed cooky WordPress Functional Consent to service wordpress Usage We use WordPress for website development. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties. Functional Name Expiration persistent Function Store logged in user Name _asp_first_index Expiration Function Indexing for search functionality Name _asp_media_service_modal Expiration Function Supports site search functionality Google Maps Marketing/Tracking Consent to service google-maps Usage We use Google Maps for map display. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration expires immediately Function Read user IP address YouTube Marketing/Tracking, Functional Consent to service youtube Usage We use YouTube for video display. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration session Function Store location data Name Expiration session Function Store and track interaction Name Expiration 8 month Function Store user preference Functional Name Expiration 6 month Function Provide bandwidth estimation Twitter Functional, Marketing/Tracking Consent to service twitter Usage We use Twitter for display of recent social post and/or social share buttons. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Functional Name Expiration persistent Function Provide load balancing functionality Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Complianz Functional Consent to service complianz Usage We use Complianz for cookie consent management. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties.For more information, please read the . Functional Name cmplz_policy_id Expiration 365 day Function Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store cookie consent preference Name Expiration 365 day Function Store if the cookie banner ha been dismissed Name Expiration 365 day Function Read to determine which cookie banner to show Google Analytics Statistics, Functional Consent to service google-analytics Usage We use Google Analytics for website statistics. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Statistics Name Expiration 2 year Function Store and count pageviews Name Expiration 1 day Function Store and count pageviews Name Expiration 1 minute Function Read and filter request from bot Functional Name Expiration session Function Provide technical monitoring Name Expiration 1 minute Function Read and filter request from bot Google Fonts Marketing/Tracking Consent to service google-fonts Usage We use Google Fonts for display of webfonts. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration expires immediately Function Read user IP address Facebook Marketing/Tracking, Functional Consent to service facebook Usage We use Facebook for display of recent social post and/or social share buttons. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration 2 year Function Store last visit Name Expiration 1 year Function Store account detail Name Expiration 3 month Function Store a unique session ID Name Expiration 3 month Function Provide ad delivery or retargeting Name Expiration 90 day Function Store logged in user Name Expiration 3 month Function Store and track visit across website Name Expiration 2 year Function Provide fraud prevention Name Expiration 30 day Function Store a unique user ID Name Expiration 2 year Function Store browser detail Name Expiration 1 year Function Store account detail Functional Name Expiration 1 week Function Read screen resolution Name Expiration 90 day Function Provide fraud prevention Name Expiration session Function Store and track if the browser tab is active LinkedIn Marketing/Tracking, Functional Consent to service linkedin Usage We use LinkedIn for display of recent social post and/or social share buttons. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration 2 year Function Store browser detail Name Expiration 1 month Function Provide ad delivery or retargeting Name Expiration 3 month Function Store browser detail Name Expiration 30 day Function Provide ad delivery or retargeting Name Expiration 1 day Function Store performed action on the website Name Expiration 2 year Function Store performed action on the website Name Expiration session Function Provide function across page Functional Name Expiration 10 year Function Store privacy preference Name Expiration session Function Provide function across page Slider Revolution Purpose pending investigation Consent to service slider-revolution Usage We use Slider Revolution for website design. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties. Purpose pending investigation Name Expiration Function Pretty Links Statistics (anonymous), Statistics Consent to service pretty-links Usage We use Pretty Links for content management. Sharing data This data is not shared with third parties. Statistics (anonymous) Name Expiration 1 year Function Store number of visit Name Expiration 1 year Function Store number of visit Name Expiration 1 year Function Store number of visit Statistics Name Expiration 1 year Function Wistia Statistics, Marketing/Tracking Consent to service wistia Usage We use Wistia for video display. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Statistics Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Name Expiration persistent Function Store if the user ha seen embedded content Marketing/Tracking Name Expiration persistent Function Store performed action on the website Purpose pending investigation Name wistia Expiration Function Google reCAPTCHA Functional Consent to service google-recaptcha Usage We use Google reCAPTCHA for spam prevention. Sharing data For more information, please read the . Functional Name Expiration session Function Provide spam protection Miscellaneous Purpose pending investigation Consent to service miscellaneous Usage Sharing data Sharing of data is pending investigation Purpose pending investigation Name Expiration Function Name pwp-2255782559 Expiration Function Name pwp-2772199010 Expiration Function Name pwp218508708 Expiration Function Name pwp424521936 Expiration Function Name pwp919997630 Expiration Function Name pwp1359643541 Expiration Function Name pwp-1967104523 Expiration Function Name pwp-5241297889 Expiration Function Name pwp-363622862 Expiration Function Name pwp-8216656121 Expiration Function Name pwp2862935008 Expiration Function Name pwp-1649375584 Expiration Function Name pwp-602367817 Expiration Function Name tourGuideSeen Expiration Function Name Expiration Function Name pwp-3413256295 Expiration Function Name pwp1892277527 Expiration Function Name loglevel Expiration Function Name JIGManualPreviewCounter Expiration Function Name pwp3814397746 Expiration Function Name pwp-2373029732 Expiration Function Name pwp-7016255199 Expiration Function Name pwp-2113539986 Expiration Function Name GinAccentColorCustom Expiration Function Name pwp-5996687209 Expiration Function Name pwp920887462 Expiration Function Name WP_DATA_USER_6 Expiration Function Name pwp-1821923519 Expiration Function Name pwp-3727530567 Expiration Function Name pwp-6305990344 Expiration Function Name pwp-7238474063 Expiration Function Name _ga_T0BJYQ3XSJ Expiration Function Name WP_PREFERENCES_USER_6 Expiration Function Name pwp2985257588 Expiration Function Name WP_PREFERENCES_USER_4 Expiration Function Name wpEmojiSettingsSupports Expiration Function Name sessionid Expiration Function 7. ConsentWhen you visit our website for the first time, we will show you a pop-up with an explanation about cookies. As soon a you click on "Save preferences", you consent to u using the category of cooky and plug-in you selected in the pop-up, a described in this Cookie Policy. You can disable the use of cooky via your browser, but please note that our website may no longer work properly.7.1 Manage your consent settingsYou have loaded the Cookie Policy without javascript support.On AMP, you can use the manage consent button on the bottom of the page.8. Enabling/disabling and deleting cookiesYou can use your internet browser to automatically or manually delete cookies. You can also specify that certain cooky may not be placed. Another option is to change the setting of your internet browser so that you receive a message each time a cookie is placed. For more information about these options, please refer to the instruction in the Help section of your browser.Please note that our website may not work properly if all cooky are disabled. If you do delete the cooky in your browser, they will be placed again after your consent when you visit our website again.9. Your right with respect to personal dataYou have the following right with respect to your personal data: You have the right to know why your personal data is needed, what will happen to it, and how long it will be retained for. Right of access: You have the right to access your personal data that is known to us. Right to rectification: you have the right to supplement, correct, have deleted or blocked your personal data whenever you wish. If you give u your consent to process your data, you have the right to revoke that consent and to have your personal data deleted. Right to transfer your data: you have the right to request all your personal data from the controller and transfer it in it entirety to another controller. Right to object: you may object to the processing of your data. We comply with this, unless there are justified ground for processing. To exercise these rights, please contact us. Please refer to the contact detail at the bottom of this Cookie Policy. If you have a complaint about how we handle your data, we would like to hear from you, but you also have the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority (the Data Protection Authority).10. Contact detailsFor question and/or comment about our Cookie Policy and this statement, please contact u by using the following contact details:Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 1210 Bruxelles Belgium Website: Email: Arnaud.Vanitterbeek@laurius.be This Cookie Policy wa synchronised with on May 8, 2024. Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Gaia-X Innovation through digital sovereignty Gaia-X European Association for Data and Cloud AISBL Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Updates Information Avenue de Arts 6-9 Bruxelles, Belgium P.C. 1210 Latest tweet Meet the Gaia-X team @CloudExpoEurope on 22-23 May.Gaia-X COO, Roland Fadrany, will deliver a keynote on "Gaia-X: Interoperable Data Spaces a a Basis for Generative AI" 22 May from 13:25. Later he will join the panel "The Cloud is Becoming Decentralised" Visit u at booth J100 For this year's #TechX Conference and Hackathon #7 we've teamed up with @GaiaXLuxembourg & we are happy to let you know that Ralf Hustadt will be our moderator and host! Join u a we delve into how technology shape our future: https://gaia-x-tech.site.digitevent.com/page/informations-en/ Introducing the newest addition to Gaia-X Academy: "Policy Reasoning Technical Focus" course! You will learn: How the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine is working. How the Gaia-X Wizard is using the Gaia-X Policy Reasoning Engine. Enrol now: https://gaia-x.eu/gaia-x-academy/ Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Copyright @ Gaia-X 2023. All Rights Reserved. Loading...