Our secure Research Environment provides approved researcher with a range of open source tools, shared storage drives, database and research platform linking genomic data to a rich set of clinical, phenotypic and longitudinal data. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Research Environment Research Environment The Research Environment Our secure Research Environment provides approved researcher with a range of open source tools, shared storage drives, database and research platform linking genomic data to a rich set of clinical, phenotypic and longitudinal data. Enabling scientific discovery and accelerating it into patient care All analysis on the Genomics England dataset happens within a secure, cloud workspace called the Research Environment. To access the data, researcher must first apply to become a member of either the Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership (academics, students, and clinicians) or the Discovery Forum (industry partners). Members will always have access to the most up-to-date research dataset and will be able to run analysis on the Genomics England high-performance compute cluster. Features: Virtual desktop environment full of the most up-to-date genomic and clinical data Wiki-based platform and chat facility for communication with other researcher Access to the Genomics England high-performance AWS compute cluster Command-line tool are available for you to perform analysis What is the Research Environment and how is it used? This short video explains what the Genomics England Research Environment is, how genomic data is de-identified and added to the Research Environment, and how researcher can access this de-identified data to inform their genomic research. What you'll be able to access Data within the Research Environment currently contains the following type of de-identified information: Genomic data De-identified genomic sequences, variants, and gene from over 100,000 genome so you can compare mass amount of data to support your research. You can see the detail of . You'll also have access to the de-identified genomic data from over 14,700 COVID-19 study participants. Cancer Rare Disease Total Participants 17,304 72,955 90,259 Genomes 42,922 Cancer Genomes 75,526 Rare disease Genomes 118,448 Clinical data Genomic data on it own can't tell you much without robust patient health data. Our Research Environment collates this information so you can look at the whole picture of what might be causing disease. We're constantly adding more patient and data-depth, such a proteomic and transcriptomic data and digital histopathology. Hospital episode statistic Mental health service data set Clinical actionability of prioritised variant COVID-19 status Tumour staging Tumor location Histological subtype Treatment regimen Pathology full-text Radiology full-text HPO code Mortality data ONS Omics sample A proportion of sample from our rare disease and cancer patient are routinely biobanked, and can be analysed alongside whole genome sequencing data to better understand the overarching picture of disease. Samples available include stabilised blood for a variety of omics applications. View summary data on the Public Data Browser To see an overview of the data held within our Research Environment, you can use our Public Data Browser. Within the secure Research Environment, you'll also be able to: Bring your own data or containerised application into private workspace Analyse data through Jupyter notebook Federate with data in other S3 bucket within Amazon Web Services Data security within the Research Environment To protect patient data, access to the Research Environment is controlled and secure, and only result of analysis can be exported. An examines and must approve all request for access to data before user are granted access to the Research Environment. Additionally: Movement of file into and out of the Research Environment is via the and is subject to review by a team at Genomics England.Researchers cannot copy and paste information from inside of the Research Environment to outside of it. Internet access within the Research Environment is only available for site authorised by Genomics England (called whitelisted sites) FAQs More about the Research Environment Answers to some of the frequently-asked-questions about the Genomics England Research Environment. General information General information 1. How is the Research Environment funded? The Genomics England Research Environment is supported by funding from the Medical Research Council a part of the UK Infrastructure for Large-scale Clinical Genomics Research grant. . We are also grateful to , and the who have generously funded research and infrastructure. 2. What's the difference between the Research Environment and the National Genomic Research Library? The National Genomic Research Library is the resource of samples, genomic data, and other associated health data gathered through and stored securely by us. The Research Environment is the cloud-based tool that approved researcher use to access the data in the National Genomic Research Library. Access and security Access and security 1. How can researcher gain access the Research Environment? Academic researchers, students, and clinician will need to join the . Once a researcher is an approved member of a GECIP domain and their institution ha signed the Genomics England Participation Agreement and verified them a a bonafide researcher, they will be granted restricted, remote access to de-identified datasets that contain only the information they need for their specific and approved research study. Industry partner will need to join our and be approved by our Access Review Committee. Companies who are member of the Discovery Forum work with the researchers, clinician and analyst who have been successful in joining Genomics Englands Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GECIP) within a managed framework. 2. Will research user be able to take data away? Research user will not be able to take away individual level data; they will only be able to download the anonymised result of their analysis, provided that these result do not reveal the identity of any of the participants. 3. Can master student also get access to the Research Environment data? Yes, student will need to join the by completing the application form and submitting their research plans. Students must have a supervisor who is also a member of the GECIP domain they would like to join. Updates to the Research Environment Updates to the Research Environment 1. How often will the data in the Research Environment be updated? We release data on a roughly quarterly basis, so you'll have access to the most up-to-date information regularly. 2. Will you be updating/improving the Research Environment? We welcome feedback on the Research Environment from user and are continually looking at way to improve. Please submit any comment or query you have through the . General information Access and security Updates to the Research Environment General information 1. How is the Research Environment funded? The Genomics England Research Environment is supported by funding from the Medical Research Council a part of the UK Infrastructure for Large-scale Clinical Genomics Research grant. . We are also grateful to , and the who have generously funded research and infrastructure. 2. What's the difference between the Research Environment and the National Genomic Research Library? The National Genomic Research Library is the resource of samples, genomic data, and other associated health data gathered through and stored securely by us. The Research Environment is the cloud-based tool that approved researcher use to access the data in the National Genomic Research Library. Access and security 1. How can researcher gain access the Research Environment? Academic researchers, students, and clinician will need to join the . Once a researcher is an approved member of a GECIP domain and their institution ha signed the Genomics England Participation Agreement and verified them a a bonafide researcher, they will be granted restricted, remote access to de-identified datasets that contain only the information they need for their specific and approved research study. Industry partner will need to join our and be approved by our Access Review Committee. Companies who are member of the Discovery Forum work with the researchers, clinician and analyst who have been successful in joining Genomics Englands Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GECIP) within a managed framework. 2. Will research user be able to take data away? Research user will not be able to take away individual level data; they will only be able to download the anonymised result of their analysis, provided that these result do not reveal the identity of any of the participants. 3. Can master student also get access to the Research Environment data? Yes, student will need to join the by completing the application form and submitting their research plans. Students must have a supervisor who is also a member of the GECIP domain they would like to join. Updates to the Research Environment 1. How often will the data in the Research Environment be updated? We release data on a roughly quarterly basis, so you'll have access to the most up-to-date information regularly. 2. Will you be updating/improving the Research Environment? We welcome feedback on the Research Environment from user and are continually looking at way to improve. Please submit any comment or query you have through the . Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Genomic Healthcare About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Genomics England Powering genomic medicine, together We partner with the NHS to provide whole genome sequencing diagnostics. We also equip researcher to find the cause of disease and develop new treatment with patient and participant at the heart of it all. Our focus Helping the NHS embed genomics into routine healthcare We provide diagnostics and technology to enhance genomic healthcare and streamline patient care in the NHS. Enabling scientific research via our large genomic database Our secure Research Environment equips approved researcher to make discovery that enhance participants' lives. Helping improve diagnosis and treatment for patient Patients sit at the heart of everything we do at Genomics England improving their life is what our life revolve around. Current initiative Exploring the benefit and challenge of analysing whole genome in newborns. Learn more Integrating long-read sequencing and multimodal data into cancer analysis. Learn more Examining healthcare inequality to bring genomic healthcare benefit to all. Learn more Our flagship project which changed the face of genomic healthcare in the UK. Learn more Partnering with GenOMICC, we analysed the genome of those affected by COVID-19. Learn more Latest News Events 14 May 2024 Podcasts Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Search Search result for Type here to search 659 result found Load more Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Careers ... Culture Careers Culture Shape the future of personalised medicine Join u to solve some of the most challenging issue facing healthcare and science. Make an impact Every decision, every line of code and every meeting matters. Our work change patients' lives, shape the future of genomic research and enables the treatment of tomorrow. We're passionate about what we do because our effort make a difference. Work where healthcare, technology, science, and policy meet To embrace an ever-changing industry, we work in multi-disciplinary team who collaboratively design and build the service we provide to NHS colleague and the research and biotech community. Were agile, fast-moving, and innovative, and were evolving to reflect the rich diversity of the community we serve. Our product and service are complex and need to fit into the life of our users. To do this better, we use design and social science research to ask the right question and develop the right outcomes. Accelerate healthtech As we move into creating better decision support systems, stronger bioinformatics pipelines, new clinician and patient interfaces, and savvy environment for our data, we're naturally experimenting with how we apply machine learning, HPC and other technology in product and service development. Ultimately, we're creating new healthcare ecosystem that will tailor diagnosis and treatment to the individual. Have your voice heard We encourage a high challenge and high support culture, and each year do a survey to collect and canvas everyone's views. From this, we do regular pulse survey to check in and continue to focus on what's most important to our people. Our virtue Speed We take an agile and iterative approach to everything not just software development seeking to share and get input constantly. Empathy Patients are the priority, so we ensure quality and relevance in our outputs, and put their interest ahead of our own. Curiosity We aim to think big, always asking question and experimenting, while learning from evidence and experience. Integrity As responsible steward of patient data, were transparent with each other and our partners. Focus Attention to detail is crucial in day-to-day work to limit error and prioritise what's important. Impact We deliver long-term, real-world outcome for patients, the NHS, and our partners. Connection Collaboration is essential with the UK health system, partners, the global tech and life science community, and each other. Working at Genomics England can be pretty hectic, but this mean that there is real license to shape what you do and how you do it. Ive always been encouraged to take ownership of a piece of work which ha allowed me to learn new skill and develop new talent that I might not have got if my role wa a bit more structured. Dr Simon Thompson Data Engineer When I first joined Genomics England we were a project trying to achieve something that had not been done before. Now a we mature a a long-term organisation it is a really exciting time to be part of Genomics England, a we underpin our product and service with solid engineering practice and organise ourselves around cross functional team to best support these product and service For people coming into this field, Id say that you need to plan to iterate to explore and be open to different approach and technology but plan how to detect that an approach is not working and move on quickly. Nathan Hicks Software Engineering Manager The best part of this job is talking to the participant who are just wonderful thoughtful, practical, insightful, clever and hilarious to be with. I do many talk and debates, and always love the questions, especially from kids. And I like bringing together the many different strand of my life in order to help deliver the vision of genomics. Vivienne Parry Head of Engagement When the opportunity came up to work for Genomics England, I didnt look back; it is comforting to know that a a company we are all doing something really important to bring benefit to patient now, and are providing the answer to long outstanding medical questions. It brings it home when I get the opportunity to speak to participant who really want member of their family or themselves to get the best medical treatment, and just get better. So, after all these year I finally took the logical next step Im once again helping people in such an important way. Neil Samuels Service Manager Explore Genomics England Careers About u News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Service Desk If you cannot raise an enquiry via the portal, please get in touch. Contact detail Phone Email Explore Genomics England About u Research and Partnerships News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Contact Contact u Have a question for us? We'll do our best to get you an answer from the right person. What kind of query do you have? Select a topic General question Question about the COVID-19 study Press / medium query Industry partnership NHS Genomic Medicine Service Hiring / job / employee (HR) Academic research / GECIP domain Newborn Genomes Programme Submit Leave this field blank First name Last name Email Subject Please provide a short description of your query Your message Please provide your query detail Are you a participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project? Yes No Submit Thank you for getting in touch Your query ha been submitted. You will receive an automated email confirmation of your submission. We will get in touch with you a soon a possible. Contact the Service Desk If you're having issue using one of our portal or services, please log a ticket with our Service Desk. Can't log a ticket? You can also contact the Service Desk via or telephone on 0808 2819 535. Get in touch Call Email Write to u Genomics England One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u Explore Genomics England Careers About u News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Genomics England Powering genomic medicine, together We partner with the NHS to provide whole genome sequencing diagnostics. We also equip researcher to find the cause of disease and develop new treatment with patient and participant at the heart of it all. Our focus Helping the NHS embed genomics into routine healthcare We provide diagnostics and technology to enhance genomic healthcare and streamline patient care in the NHS. Enabling scientific research via our large genomic database Our secure Research Environment equips approved researcher to make discovery that enhance participants' lives. Helping improve diagnosis and treatment for patient Patients sit at the heart of everything we do at Genomics England improving their life is what our life revolve around. Current initiative Exploring the benefit and challenge of analysing whole genome in newborns. Learn more Integrating long-read sequencing and multimodal data into cancer analysis. Learn more Examining healthcare inequality to bring genomic healthcare benefit to all. Learn more Our flagship project which changed the face of genomic healthcare in the UK. Learn more Partnering with GenOMICC, we analysed the genome of those affected by COVID-19. Learn more Latest News Events 14 May 2024 Podcasts Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Genomic Medicine Genomic Medicine Genomic Medicine We're working in partnership with NHS England and the NHS Genomic Medicine Service to develop a personalised and predictive healthcare solution through the use of genomics. What is genomic medicine? Genomic medicine us insight from a human's complete set of DNA (called a genome) to inform their healthcare. But because people are very different, studying a genome by itself can't tell you very much. To make sense of it, it's essential to know much more about the person and their health, a well a their DNA. Genomic medicine combine these two elements, using the science of genomics alongside information about a person's health to improve diagnosis and treatment. At Genomics England, we partner with the NHS to provide platform that enable genomics to be used to diagnose more accurately, treat more effectively, or even spot condition before symptom appear. How is genomic data gathered? Anyone who is offered whole genome sequencing a part of their care in the is asked to consent to having their genome sequence and health data and/or their sample (blood/saliva/tissue, etc.), accessible for research. It's your choice. If you agree, your sample will be stored securely and your data will be added to the National Genomic Research Library, a secure national database of de-identified genomic and health data managed by us. 80% of rare disease are linked to difference in DNA 120K+ whole genome sequenced 90% of patient choose for their data to be used for genomic research What can genomics do for healthcare? Studying the genome of many thousand of people allows doctor and scientist to find pattern in the data. By combining those pattern with health data they can pinpoint individual risk of disease, deliver definitive diagnosis and select the treatment that work best. Personalised medicine By giving u a window into the molecular difference between people, genomic medicine allows u to pinpoint individual risk of disease and response to treatment. Fast and accurate diagnosis Genetic biomarker database such a ours can reduce genomic testing to a single analysis and deliver a definitive diagnosis more quickly. Preventative medicine Genomic testing help clinician ass for various condition earlier (sometimes before any symptom have presented), and provide their patient with appropriate treatment or preventative interventions. History of genomics History of genomics The UK ha a strong history in genomics from Watson and Cricks discovery of DNA to the invention of DNA sequencing. The NHS ha been undertaking genomic testing for decade and there ha been significant government and NHS investment to support continued progress. In 1990, an international consortium of researcher launched the Human Genome Project with the goal of sequencing the first whole human genome. The programme wa completed in 2003 and yielded the discovery that there are approximately 20,500 human genes, of which 95% were a mystery. On the back of that discovery, along with advance in technology, researcher set out to sequence and study more genome in order to understand the role gene play in health and disease. In the UK, in 2012, this programme wa called the 100,000 Genomes Project, which marked the birth of Genomics England to lead and coordinate the research. How we work at Genomics England How we work at Genomics England Genomic medicine us an individual's genomic information a part of their clinical care. Advances in science and technology, along with collaboration with the NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS), provides a unique way to integrate genomic medicine into routine care. Here at Genomics England, we focus on developing analytical and IT system that support the NHS to sequence whole genome from patient (and their family members) with common cancer and rare diseases. The data we generate provides clinician with more accuracy in diagnosing medical condition and allows them to target therapy more precisely to their patients. What's next for genomics What's next for genomics Ten year ago, it might have sounded like a fantasy to suggest that we would one day be able to develop individualised therapies, but both the advance in genomic sequencing and the introduction of the NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS) now make these claim a reality. Using the genomic information we curate, the NHS GMS ha already established early clinical condition for whole genome sequencing, with future plan for more. They're also developing test for another 120 cancer condition and non-whole genome sequencing testing to include over 300 rare diseases. Collectively, these advanced service will help eliminate the variable of 'trial-and-error' prescription and provide a significant new resource in transforming healthcare for the NHS. History of genomics How we work at Genomics England What's next for genomics History of genomics The UK ha a strong history in genomics from Watson and Cricks discovery of DNA to the invention of DNA sequencing. The NHS ha been undertaking genomic testing for decade and there ha been significant government and NHS investment to support continued progress. In 1990, an international consortium of researcher launched the Human Genome Project with the goal of sequencing the first whole human genome. The programme wa completed in 2003 and yielded the discovery that there are approximately 20,500 human genes, of which 95% were a mystery. On the back of that discovery, along with advance in technology, researcher set out to sequence and study more genome in order to understand the role gene play in health and disease. In the UK, in 2012, this programme wa called the 100,000 Genomes Project, which marked the birth of Genomics England to lead and coordinate the research. How we work at Genomics England Genomic medicine us an individual's genomic information a part of their clinical care. Advances in science and technology, along with collaboration with the NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS), provides a unique way to integrate genomic medicine into routine care. Here at Genomics England, we focus on developing analytical and IT system that support the NHS to sequence whole genome from patient (and their family members) with common cancer and rare diseases. The data we generate provides clinician with more accuracy in diagnosing medical condition and allows them to target therapy more precisely to their patients. What's next for genomics Ten year ago, it might have sounded like a fantasy to suggest that we would one day be able to develop individualised therapies, but both the advance in genomic sequencing and the introduction of the NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS) now make these claim a reality. Using the genomic information we curate, the NHS GMS ha already established early clinical condition for whole genome sequencing, with future plan for more. They're also developing test for another 120 cancer condition and non-whole genome sequencing testing to include over 300 rare diseases. Collectively, these advanced service will help eliminate the variable of 'trial-and-error' prescription and provide a significant new resource in transforming healthcare for the NHS. Making an impact See the area where genomic data is being used to improve patients' life Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Explore Genomics England Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Understanding genomics Understanding genomics Genomic Medicine We're working in partnership with NHS England and the NHS Genomic Medicine Service to develop a personalised and predictive healthcare solution through the use of genomics. The fabric of all of u An introduction to genome Your genome is the instruction for making and maintaining you. It is written in a chemical code called DNA. All living thing plants, bacteria, virus and animal have a genome. Find out more about how your genome work in this short video by Great Ormond Street Hospital. The building block of genome Your genome is all 3.2 billion letter of your DNA. It contains around 20,000 genes. Genes are the instruction for making the protein our body are built of from the keratin in hair and fingernail to the antibody protein that fight infection. Genes make up about 1-5% of your genome. The rest of the DNA, between the genes, used to be called junk DNA. It wasnt thought to be important. But we now know that DNA between gene actually regulates the gene and the genome. And there is still much more to learn about what it all does. That's where genomics come in. Genomics look at the complete genome that is, all of your DNA from gene to 'junk' to get a fuller picture of how it can affect our health. Genomics dictionary Use this quick guide to learn the definition of some key genomics term DNA DNA DNA (deoxyribose nucleic acid) is a long molecule. It ha a twisted, double helix shape. DNA is made up of four different chemicals, or bases. These are represented by the letter A, T, C and G. The base are attached to two phosphate backbones. The base are paired together; A with T, G with C. The two backbone twist around each other to give the characteristic double helix. As well a being helix shaped, DNA is tightly packed so it take up le space. If you stretched the DNA in one cell all the way out, it would be about 2m long. Genes Genes Amongst the 3 billion letter of DNA in your genome are 20,000 genes. These make up about 2% of the sequence. Genes carry the information that determines your trait the feature or characteristic that are passed on to you from your parents. The DNA in a gene spell out specific instruction for making protein in the cell. Proteins are the building block for everything in your body. Genome sequencing Genome sequencing Sequencing is a technique that is used to read DNA. It find the order of the letter of DNA (A, T, C and G), one by one. Sequencing a human genome mean finding the sequence of someone unique 3 billion letter of DNA. There are different method and machine that can sequence genomes. DNA is sequenced by our partner at Illumina. One human genome can be sequenced in about a day, though the analysis take much longer. Reads Reads Current DNA sequencing machine cannot sequence the whole genome in one go. Instead, they sequence the DNA in short pieces, around 150 letter long. Each of these short sequence is called a read. Technology is currently being developed to allow for 'long-reads' of DNA. As the name suggests, we'll be able to 'read' a much longer section of DNA, which can give u a better understanding of how it all fit together. Reference genome sequence Reference genome sequence Reads from a sequencing machine are matched to a reference genome sequence. The reference sequence is used by scientist world-wide. It is a representative example of a human genome sequence. It is made up of DNA sequence from 13 anonymous donors, so is not any single person. The reference sequence wa the result of the original , which finished in 2001. The position of most of our gene is known, and is shown on the reference sequence. The next step is to identify the difference between your genome and the reference. Mapping Mapping Using the 'reference genome sequence', high performance computer use 'mapping' software to find where each read belongs on the genome. This process help discover any variant between your genome and the reference genome. Variants Variants Every person ha million of difference to the reference sequence. The difference are called variants. These might be a single letter. Or a string of letter may be in a different place or missing. Most of the difference are completely harmless they are the reason we are different from each other. Some difference could be causing a disease. Scientists use a range of software to filter million of difference down to just a few that could be harmful. Bioinformatics Bioinformatics Bioinformatics is the science of collecting and analysing complex biological data, such a genomic data. Bioinformaticians are scientist who specialise in analysing genomic or other biological data. They develop method and software tool to understand and interpret. DNA Genes Genome sequencing Reads Reference genome sequence Mapping Variants Bioinformatics DNA DNA (deoxyribose nucleic acid) is a long molecule. It ha a twisted, double helix shape. DNA is made up of four different chemicals, or bases. These are represented by the letter A, T, C and G. The base are attached to two phosphate backbones. The base are paired together; A with T, G with C. The two backbone twist around each other to give the characteristic double helix. As well a being helix shaped, DNA is tightly packed so it take up le space. If you stretched the DNA in one cell all the way out, it would be about 2m long. Genes Amongst the 3 billion letter of DNA in your genome are 20,000 genes. These make up about 2% of the sequence. Genes carry the information that determines your trait the feature or characteristic that are passed on to you from your parents. The DNA in a gene spell out specific instruction for making protein in the cell. Proteins are the building block for everything in your body. Genome sequencing Sequencing is a technique that is used to read DNA. It find the order of the letter of DNA (A, T, C and G), one by one. Sequencing a human genome mean finding the sequence of someone unique 3 billion letter of DNA. There are different method and machine that can sequence genomes. DNA is sequenced by our partner at Illumina. One human genome can be sequenced in about a day, though the analysis take much longer. Reads Current DNA sequencing machine cannot sequence the whole genome in one go. Instead, they sequence the DNA in short pieces, around 150 letter long. Each of these short sequence is called a read. Technology is currently being developed to allow for 'long-reads' of DNA. As the name suggests, we'll be able to 'read' a much longer section of DNA, which can give u a better understanding of how it all fit together. Reference genome sequence Reads from a sequencing machine are matched to a reference genome sequence. The reference sequence is used by scientist world-wide. It is a representative example of a human genome sequence. It is made up of DNA sequence from 13 anonymous donors, so is not any single person. The reference sequence wa the result of the original , which finished in 2001. The position of most of our gene is known, and is shown on the reference sequence. The next step is to identify the difference between your genome and the reference. Mapping Using the 'reference genome sequence', high performance computer use 'mapping' software to find where each read belongs on the genome. This process help discover any variant between your genome and the reference genome. Variants Every person ha million of difference to the reference sequence. The difference are called variants. These might be a single letter. Or a string of letter may be in a different place or missing. Most of the difference are completely harmless they are the reason we are different from each other. Some difference could be causing a disease. Scientists use a range of software to filter million of difference down to just a few that could be harmful. Bioinformatics Bioinformatics is the science of collecting and analysing complex biological data, such a genomic data. Bioinformaticians are scientist who specialise in analysing genomic or other biological data. They develop method and software tool to understand and interpret. Why sequence a genome? Learning more about genome can help u to identify the cause of genetic diseases. Some rare disease are caused by a little a a single change (variant), like a spelling mistake, in someone DNA. Looking at the genome of a person affected by a rare disease can help find which DNA change might be causing the problem. In cancer, the tumour cell have developed a different genome to the healthy cells. Comparing the normal and cancer genome may give clue about way to treat the cancer. For some patients, knowing more about their genome may mean that a particular treatment can be recommended. When the genome sequence of patient with the same condition are compared, it is possible to see patterns. These pattern can be put together with health information. Once this is done we may be able to link particular pattern with whether people are likely to become ill and, if so, how severe their illness is likely to be. Understanding genomics How sequencing a genome work 1. Test offered Patients with specific medical condition may be offered a genomic DNA test via the NHS Genomic Medicine Service. 2. Sample gathered If they consent, their DNA is extracted from a sample (blood, tissue, or skin) in an NHS laboratory and loaded onto a sequencing machine. 3. Sample sequenced The machine determines the sequence of short piece of DNA, 150 letter long, called 'reads'. 4. Sequence mapped The 'reads' from the machine are matched to a reference sequence. This is called 'mapping'. 5. Variants analysed 'Variants' in the DNA are analysed by bioinformaticians and narrowed down to just a handful that could be harmful. 6. NHS receives list of variant These handful of variant are fed back to the NHS laboratory, whose scientist look through the list of variant and compare them to a patient symptom and health data. 7. NHS confirms result Any finding are given to the patient clinician. If a variant is confirmed to be the cause of a condition, diagnosis and implication are discussed with the patient. Learn more about genomics Watch 'Jeans, whose Genes?' produced by Space2 and written by Michelle Scally Clarke This culturally sensitive play raise awareness of genomics and the impact of genetic disease that often run unaware within families. Explore Genomics England Patients and Participants News and Events About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... NHS Genomic Medicine Service NHS Genomic Medicine Service Genomic Medicine We're working in partnership with NHS England and the NHS Genomic Medicine Service to develop a personalised and predictive healthcare solution through the use of genomics. The NHS Genomic Medicine Service The NHS Genomic Medicine Service (NHS GMS) is the arm of the NHS working to enable the NHS to harness the power of genomic technology and science to improve the health of our population. The aim of the NHS GMS are to provide: Consistent and equitable care for the country 55 million peopleA single National Genomic Test Directory covering use of all genomic technology from single gene to whole genome sequencingA national genomic knowledge base to provide real world data to inform academic and industry research and development How is whole genome sequencing data gathered in the NHS GMS? If you're a patient of the , you may be offered whole genome sequencing a part of your clinical care. You will be asked if you want to donate genome sequence and health data, and/or your sample (blood/saliva/tissue, etc.), for research. If you agree, your sample will be stored securely and your data will be added to the National Genomic Research Library. This is a secure national database of de-identified genomic and health data managed by Genomics England. NHS England, on behalf of the hospital (Trusts) that provided your genomic test, will allow Genomics England to access your identified data to link you to the National Genomic Research Library. Approved researcher can use the sample and data to study disease and look for new treatments. Their research might help you and others now or in the future. Why me? As part of your care, or care of your relative, you have been offered a type of genomic testing through the NHS Genomic Medicine Service which involves whole genome sequencing. This mean every letter of the 3 billion letter in your genome will be read to create your unique genetic sequence. As well a being used for your clinical care, the data from your whole genome sequence is also useful for research. Get answer Your involvement in the National Genomic Research Library may provide an opportunity for you to get answer which could lead to a diagnosis, access to a different treatment, or an opportunity to participate in clinical trials. Help others Involvement may help people with similar condition to you a well a helping people with a variety of other conditions. It could mean getting answer for you or others now or in the future. Be part of something big You will be part of a new national approach working with the NHS to bring together health data to help patient get better care. Make a lasting impact By agreeing to donate your samples, and health and genomic data, you can make an impact for you, your family, and for future generations. The more people take part, the more likely it is that we will all have improved health. What is the National Genomic Research Library? It's a resource of de-identified samples, genomic data, and other associated health data that approved researcher can access via our secure . The National Genomic Research Library is a partnership between NHS England and Genomics England. The offer to take part in research is an integral part of your clinical care. Researchers who use the National Genomic Research Library can learn more about everyones health by looking for pattern in the de-identified data of thousand of patients. Being able to compare all de-identified patient data in one place provides researcher with an opportunity to better understand diseases, develop new treatment and can lead to new diagnoses. For clinician Are you part of the healthcare workforce? Learn more with Health Education England's Genomics Education Programme, which delivers genomics education, training, and experience for the healthcare workforce. The aim is to help prepare current and future NHS professional to make the best use of genomics in their practice. Further resource for clinician Links and resource Explore Genomics England Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Genomics in the UK Genomics in the UK Genomic Medicine We're working in partnership with NHS England and the NHS Genomic Medicine Service to develop a personalised and predictive healthcare solution through the use of genomics. The UK genomics ecosystem The UK ha often led the world in scientific breakthrough and DNA wa no exception. Crick and Watson won the Nobel Prize for discovering the double helix structure of DNA. And it wa a British double Nobel Prize winning scientist, Fred Sanger, who discovered how to sequence it. Today, the UK continues to maintain it position a a world-leader in genomic research and healthcare. Key fact 154 genomic company in the UK 12% year-on-year growth from 2011-2020 10K+ people employed in genomic company Benefits of a genomics industry in the UK Better treatment and diagnosis for patient in the NHS New medicine and diagnostic test developed Places the country at the forefront of an emerging industry Why the genomics ecosystem emerged in the UK The UK lead the world in life science Many of the world's most talented scientist come to the UK to research and develop innovative drug and technologies. And many great breakthrough in this field like the discovery of penicillin, the structure of DNA and antibody therapy have happened here. The UK ha the unique benefit of the NHS The ability to link a whole lifetime of medical record with a person genome data on a large scale can help to understand disease and to tease apart the complex relationship between our genes, what happens to u in our lives, and illness. The unified health system also enables systematic implementation of new technologies. The UK's plan for continued growth In July 2021, the Life Sciences Visions set out bold ambition for the future of life science in the UK. 10-year strategy in place to accelerate innovation for patient Mission-led approach to solve some of our biggest healthcare problem 1 billion of funding available to UK's most promising life science company A groundbreaking approach We've worked together with the NHS to make the NHS in England the first integrated healthcare system in the world to offer whole genome sequencing a part of routine care. The age of genomics ha begun. And just a the NHS ha put the UK at the forefront of scientific breakthrough before, the NHS is at the forefront again with Genomics England at it side. Read more about genomics in the UK How genomic data is making an impact Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Explore Genomics England About u Research and Partnerships News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Clinicians Clinicians For clinician Information and resource for clinician engaging with whole genome sequencing and the NHS Genomic Medicine Service. Whole genome sequencing Whole genome sequencing (WGS) is the process of reading a person's entire genetic code. It add new dimension to patient diagnosis and treatment and unlocks more information than conventional standard of care genetic testing. This can aid in making diagnosis and tailoring treatment for patients. Here you'll find information for clinician about whole genome sequencing in the NHS, a well a resource to help discus WGS with patients. Pediatric oncologist Jack Bartram highlight how WGS ha greatly helped his patients. Whole genome sequencing in the NHS WGS is a type of genomic test available in the . Clinicians in the NHS can request WGS for patient with certain rare disease indication or cancers, to help inform their care. WGS in the NHS GMS involves a patient consent process. You can find . This includes a conversation between clinician and patient that cover both the clinical implication of the test, a well a an option for the patient to make their data and sample available to researcher in the . Information about the NHS GMS genomics team from Health Education England. Genomics England's role in whole genome sequencing Genomics England work with NHS England, the and our sequencing partner Illumina to undertake whole genome sequencing and analyse the results. These result are then fed back through regional network of and on to clinical care. We also securely store that genomic information (with patients' consent) in the National Genomic Research Library, and make it available for research. Learn more about whole genome sequencing Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Our Initiatives Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Our initiative Our initiative Find information about what we're working on, including participant resource Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Delivering the NHS-embedded Generation Study. Learn more See how participant data is making a positive impact View the list of journal publication that include the Genomics England dataset. Browse research project by domain to see how researcher are using participant data in important studies. Explore Genomics England News and Events Genomic Healthcare About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Cancer 2.0 Cancer 2.0 Cancer 2.0 Exploring long-read sequencing technology and multimodal data to support earlier, faster diagnosis of cancer. The next evolution in cancer technology and research Since the launch of the , researcher and clinicianshave partnered with Genomics England to collect and analysegenomicand long-term clinical data(from health records) to gain insight into the nature of genetic change that drive cancer evolution. In the next step of our cancer programme, we are exploring two new technology for the clinic and research: long-read sequencing and multi-modal data. Aims of the initiative Support better patient outcome Shorten the time it take to receive accurate diagnostic result for the 300,000+ people diagnosed with cancer per year. Help clinician deliver personalised treatment Explore the potential of sequencing technology to better support clinician with their patient treatment decisions. Create a world-class research asset for the UK Make the country's genomic data richer by combining imaging, genomic, and clinical data for researcher to generate new insight into cancer. What is multimodal data? Cancer reveals itself to scientist in many different ways: a molecular feature in the genome, at a very small scale in pathology images, and at a larger scale in radiology image like MRI and CT scans. In the past, these discipline of genomics, pathology, and radiology have been very siloed and separate. Our multimodal project combine data from all of these sources, a well a the clinical follow-up data from patients, and us machine learning method to look at all of them together. We hope to identify new feature of cancer that drive prognosis or response to specific treatments. This research project may lead to more sensitive diagnostic approach that could be used in clinic. What is long-read sequencing? To treat cancers, we have to better understand them and their DNA. Previously, DNA would be chopped into thousand of shorter sections. Each shorter section, or read, would be sequenced, and variant within those section analysed. Through this project, we are exploring the clinical potential of a new technique to sequence very long strand of individual DNA without the need to slice it up. This is long-read sequencing. Long-read sequencing can reveal new information about whole region and large structural feature of the genome that were previously inaccessible to traditional sequencing. It will give insight into cancer that older technology couldn't see that may reveal more accurate diagnosis and treatment for patients. Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore other initiative Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare News and Events About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... COVID-19 Study COVID-19 Study COVID-19 Study We know that a variety of factor play a part in how sick people become with COVID-19. But scientific research ha shown that even when all these factor are taken into account, there is something else. Project overview Helping to solve the COVID puzzle Genomics England worked in partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the University of Edinburgh, to analyse the whole genome sequence of approximately 20,000 people who have been severely affected by COVID-19. These cases, which were severe enough to require admission to intensive care, were then compared to 15,000 other genome from people who were only mildly affected or had no symptom at all. Read on to find out more about this study. Aims of the study Decode the puzzle Discover if there are genetic reason why COVID-19 affect people of different, age, gender and ethnicity Find genetic cause Understand why some healthy people become seriously ill with COVID-19 Better patient care Uncover answer to help improve treatment for everyone Why study how COVID-19 affect people? Some people become very severely ill with COVID-19 and end up in hospital, while others only experienced a mild illness. We know that a variety of factor play a part in how sick people become; an existing medical condition, being overweight, their ethnicity, and deprivation. But scientific research ha shown that even when all these factor are taken into account, . This study aimed to discover those differences. FAQs about the GenOMICC COVID-19 study General question General question about the study 1. Which organisation were involved in developing this study? A wide range of expert organisation were involved in developing this project: The (Genetics of Mortality in Critical Care) consortium of ITUs, led by Dr Kenneth Baillie, Consultant in Critical Care Medicine, University of EdinburghGenomics England, with Sir Mark Caulfield a the scientific lead and Parker Moss a the Partnerships leadRelevant leadership from , (PHE), (HDR UK) and Academic lead from the university of Oxford, Kings College London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Cambridge, Cardiff, Glasgow a well a the Wellcome Sanger Centre in CambridgeIllumina Laboratory Services (ILS) in Cambridge 2. Why did you need so many genomes? The human genome code is 3 billion letter long. 99.9% of it is the same, one human to another. The other 0.1% is the bit that make each of u unique. Some of the difference between u are healthy one while others are not, but we cant say for sure which are harmful change until we can compare thousand of genomes. Another issue is that a difference which might be healthy in one population say of Indian heritage could be harmful in another population. This is why having sample from a many ethnicity a possible is so important. 3. How did you ensure that the mild group of patient is representative of those affected by COVID-19? Together with the University of Edinburgh and the GenOMICC consortium, we matched the demographic of the patient recruited for mild comparison group with those brought in to the severe group through intensive care units. Initial studies, such a the by Public Health England, have shown that ethnic minority group are disproportionately affected by the coronavirus, so having more volunteer from ethnic minority background wa incredibly important. , in which our former Chief Scientist Professor Sir Mark Caulfield wa involved, suggested that many of the expected factor (such a socio-economic) are not enough to explain the disparities. This mean must look at genomic difference for more answers, and we tried to match those severely affected with those who were only mildly affected. Results Results 1. What result were you expecting? We expected to see some signal around gene involved in blood group determination (this ha already been established). We then looked very carefully at immune system gene a this would be an obvious place for difference to be important. We also looked carefully at gene with instruction for the particular kind of cell docking bay that allow the virus to break into our cells. Beyond that, we kept an open mind, and result are still forthcoming. 2. When can we expect to see result from this study? The first genome from our severe volunteer came through in June 2020. By June 2021, interim finding from the study were published. With luck and the very hard work of our scientists, these finding have already helped doctor make better decision when treating patient with COVID-19, resulting in better outcomes. In addition, two therapeutic drug trial have also commenced. The final finding from the study are anticipated to be published in early 2022.Please note that our volunteer for both the severe and mild group will not receive any individual, personalised result a this is not a clinical programme. However, what we discover through your help will be of value in the next wave of the pandemic. If you signed up for the study, you were given the option to consent to being told more about the outcome from the research, later down the line. Data security and access Data security and access 1. What happens to patient data after it ha been sequenced? Where will their data be stored? Once our sequencing partner Illumina sequenced patient whole genomes, they sent this data to Genomics England. We then stripped identifiable, personal data from this, and the de-identified genomic data is stored in our secure database, the National Genomic Research Library. Only validated researcher with express permission are allowed to access the raw data. This data is protected to the same high standard a the data collected from the 100,000 Genomes Project. 2. How did you ensure that data is protected, and remains anonymous and confidential? Consent to use genomic data wa obtained from patient or their families, utilising the GenOMICC study existing network of research nurse and clinician across the country. Genomics Englands priority ha always been to ensure that the data of all participant is protected. Any data that researcher can access ha been de-identified. This data cannot be removed or copied by researchers. We are committed to full transparency about the use of people data. Read our full for more information. 3. How is volunteer data protected? All participant data is stripped of any identifiable, personal detail and the de-identified genomic data is stored in our secure cloud database. Most of u use cloud service for thing like storing photo and music on our mobile phones. Cloud service are actually high security warehouse filled with massive computing computer. Genome data is enormous, and we use a cloud service from Amazon Web Services (AWS) based in the UK to provide a secure cloud computing and storage infrastructure. We use another tech company called Lifebit to help researcher wrangle this huge quantity of data, using their unique technology platform. We joined force with AWS and Lifebit to ensure that all the data we look after is highly secure, while allowing researcher to do their analysis flexibly. Any data that researcher can access ha been de-identified. Read more on . 100,000 Genomes Project participant 100,000 Genomes Project participant 1. How are 100,000 Genomes Project participant involved in this study? How will their data be used? Participants of the 100,000 Genomes Project were a key part of the jigsaw in the COVID-19 study. Many 100,000 Genomes Project participant who had severe COVID consented to be included in the study, and many who tested positive but had mild symptom volunteered a well. Peoples genome contain many change which are normal and not associated with ill health. Because we have the health record and genome of the people that took part in the 100,000 Genomes Project, we can use their data to help check whether change we see in COVID-19 patient genome are just healthy changes, or likely to be associated with a harmful response. Their data wa of huge value in this programme. We are very grateful to the participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project who have agreed to have their data used in this way. 2. What about 100,000 Genomes Project participant who have yet to receive result for either main finding or additional findings? Although many participant will have received a result at this stage, we are aware that there are still some participant who have not received anything yet. We have also promised to do reanalysis for all 100,000 Genomes Project participants, and for those who have asked for them. Unfortunately, this work wa delayed due to our focus on COVID-19. Genomics England and NHS England have jointly written explaining the current situation and next steps. General question Results Data security and access 100,000 Genomes Project participant General question about the study 1. Which organisation were involved in developing this study? A wide range of expert organisation were involved in developing this project: The (Genetics of Mortality in Critical Care) consortium of ITUs, led by Dr Kenneth Baillie, Consultant in Critical Care Medicine, University of EdinburghGenomics England, with Sir Mark Caulfield a the scientific lead and Parker Moss a the Partnerships leadRelevant leadership from , (PHE), (HDR UK) and Academic lead from the university of Oxford, Kings College London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Cambridge, Cardiff, Glasgow a well a the Wellcome Sanger Centre in CambridgeIllumina Laboratory Services (ILS) in Cambridge 2. Why did you need so many genomes? The human genome code is 3 billion letter long. 99.9% of it is the same, one human to another. The other 0.1% is the bit that make each of u unique. Some of the difference between u are healthy one while others are not, but we cant say for sure which are harmful change until we can compare thousand of genomes. Another issue is that a difference which might be healthy in one population say of Indian heritage could be harmful in another population. This is why having sample from a many ethnicity a possible is so important. 3. How did you ensure that the mild group of patient is representative of those affected by COVID-19? Together with the University of Edinburgh and the GenOMICC consortium, we matched the demographic of the patient recruited for mild comparison group with those brought in to the severe group through intensive care units. Initial studies, such a the by Public Health England, have shown that ethnic minority group are disproportionately affected by the coronavirus, so having more volunteer from ethnic minority background wa incredibly important. , in which our former Chief Scientist Professor Sir Mark Caulfield wa involved, suggested that many of the expected factor (such a socio-economic) are not enough to explain the disparities. This mean must look at genomic difference for more answers, and we tried to match those severely affected with those who were only mildly affected. Results 1. What result were you expecting? We expected to see some signal around gene involved in blood group determination (this ha already been established). We then looked very carefully at immune system gene a this would be an obvious place for difference to be important. We also looked carefully at gene with instruction for the particular kind of cell docking bay that allow the virus to break into our cells. Beyond that, we kept an open mind, and result are still forthcoming. 2. When can we expect to see result from this study? The first genome from our severe volunteer came through in June 2020. By June 2021, interim finding from the study were published. With luck and the very hard work of our scientists, these finding have already helped doctor make better decision when treating patient with COVID-19, resulting in better outcomes. In addition, two therapeutic drug trial have also commenced. The final finding from the study are anticipated to be published in early 2022.Please note that our volunteer for both the severe and mild group will not receive any individual, personalised result a this is not a clinical programme. However, what we discover through your help will be of value in the next wave of the pandemic. If you signed up for the study, you were given the option to consent to being told more about the outcome from the research, later down the line. Data security and access 1. What happens to patient data after it ha been sequenced? Where will their data be stored? Once our sequencing partner Illumina sequenced patient whole genomes, they sent this data to Genomics England. We then stripped identifiable, personal data from this, and the de-identified genomic data is stored in our secure database, the National Genomic Research Library. Only validated researcher with express permission are allowed to access the raw data. This data is protected to the same high standard a the data collected from the 100,000 Genomes Project. 2. How did you ensure that data is protected, and remains anonymous and confidential? Consent to use genomic data wa obtained from patient or their families, utilising the GenOMICC study existing network of research nurse and clinician across the country. Genomics Englands priority ha always been to ensure that the data of all participant is protected. Any data that researcher can access ha been de-identified. This data cannot be removed or copied by researchers. We are committed to full transparency about the use of people data. Read our full for more information. 3. How is volunteer data protected? All participant data is stripped of any identifiable, personal detail and the de-identified genomic data is stored in our secure cloud database. Most of u use cloud service for thing like storing photo and music on our mobile phones. Cloud service are actually high security warehouse filled with massive computing computer. Genome data is enormous, and we use a cloud service from Amazon Web Services (AWS) based in the UK to provide a secure cloud computing and storage infrastructure. We use another tech company called Lifebit to help researcher wrangle this huge quantity of data, using their unique technology platform. We joined force with AWS and Lifebit to ensure that all the data we look after is highly secure, while allowing researcher to do their analysis flexibly. Any data that researcher can access ha been de-identified. Read more on . 100,000 Genomes Project participant 1. How are 100,000 Genomes Project participant involved in this study? How will their data be used? Participants of the 100,000 Genomes Project were a key part of the jigsaw in the COVID-19 study. Many 100,000 Genomes Project participant who had severe COVID consented to be included in the study, and many who tested positive but had mild symptom volunteered a well. Peoples genome contain many change which are normal and not associated with ill health. Because we have the health record and genome of the people that took part in the 100,000 Genomes Project, we can use their data to help check whether change we see in COVID-19 patient genome are just healthy changes, or likely to be associated with a harmful response. Their data wa of huge value in this programme. We are very grateful to the participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project who have agreed to have their data used in this way. 2. What about 100,000 Genomes Project participant who have yet to receive result for either main finding or additional findings? Although many participant will have received a result at this stage, we are aware that there are still some participant who have not received anything yet. We have also promised to do reanalysis for all 100,000 Genomes Project participants, and for those who have asked for them. Unfortunately, this work wa delayed due to our focus on COVID-19. Genomics England and NHS England have jointly written explaining the current situation and next steps. Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore other initiative Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare About u Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Diverse Data Diverse Data Diverse Data The initiative aim to reduce health inequality and improve patient outcome in genomic medicine for minoritised communities. The Diverse Data vision Our vision is that all patients, regardless of their background, receive the same quality of genomics-enabled personalised medicine, supported by the latest research on people like them. Read and comment on a live version of our strategy to see our plan and input into our design. Visualisation of data bias by Stef Posavec What make human genome diverse? What make human genome diverse? Human genome are 99.9% identical; however, it's difference in the 0.1% which make each of u unique whether in term of our hair colour, our like/dislike of certain foods, and even our sleeping patterns. Variations in genome can result from factor such a human migration patterns, our ancestry and choice of mate, and oftentimes environmental factor (which along with genetics, can contribute to a trait such a height and weight). These variant tend to appear at different frequency across different populations. Sometimes, they're rare and impact only specific families. At other times, the variant are common and can be found across populations. Why do we need more diverse data? Why do we need more diverse data? The human genome is complicated and the discovery through research have only scratched the surface of understanding everything there is to know about what make human unique at the molecular level. The overrepresentation of population from WEIRD society (western, educated, industrialised, rich, and democratic), but particularly of white European descent in genomic databases, ha resulted in misdiagnoses, poor understanding of condition and inconsistent delivery of care, a well a mistrust amongst excluded community on the collection and use of their genetic data. As a result, genomic medicine doe not always benefit all people equally. Prioritising diversity in genomic research can lead to a range of benefit including new understanding of gene that underlie diseases, new treatment for a more diverse range of people populations, more accurate reading of a person risk of developing a specific disease, and the design of a clinical management strategy tailored to individuals. Why ha enhancing diversity in genomics research been a difficult task? Why ha enhancing diversity in genomics research been a difficult task? Underrepresentation in genomics research can be attributed to many complex barrier such a language, economic circumstances, cultural beliefs, a well a other pertinent social and psychological factors. In addition, historical injustice and lived experience have led underrepresented community to build a wall of mistrust against medical research. Mistrust ha stemmed from very real historical event and abuses, and is reinforced through the current sociopolitical climate. In addition, both inaccessible and insufficient communication have complicated the understanding of benefit and use of their personal data to participants. What make human genome diverse? Why do we need more diverse data? Why ha enhancing diversity in genomics research been a difficult task? What make human genome diverse? Human genome are 99.9% identical; however, it's difference in the 0.1% which make each of u unique whether in term of our hair colour, our like/dislike of certain foods, and even our sleeping patterns. Variations in genome can result from factor such a human migration patterns, our ancestry and choice of mate, and oftentimes environmental factor (which along with genetics, can contribute to a trait such a height and weight). These variant tend to appear at different frequency across different populations. Sometimes, they're rare and impact only specific families. At other times, the variant are common and can be found across populations. Why do we need more diverse data? The human genome is complicated and the discovery through research have only scratched the surface of understanding everything there is to know about what make human unique at the molecular level. The overrepresentation of population from WEIRD society (western, educated, industrialised, rich, and democratic), but particularly of white European descent in genomic databases, ha resulted in misdiagnoses, poor understanding of condition and inconsistent delivery of care, a well a mistrust amongst excluded community on the collection and use of their genetic data. As a result, genomic medicine doe not always benefit all people equally. Prioritising diversity in genomic research can lead to a range of benefit including new understanding of gene that underlie diseases, new treatment for a more diverse range of people populations, more accurate reading of a person risk of developing a specific disease, and the design of a clinical management strategy tailored to individuals. Why ha enhancing diversity in genomics research been a difficult task? Underrepresentation in genomics research can be attributed to many complex barrier such a language, economic circumstances, cultural beliefs, a well a other pertinent social and psychological factors. In addition, historical injustice and lived experience have led underrepresented community to build a wall of mistrust against medical research. Mistrust ha stemmed from very real historical event and abuses, and is reinforced through the current sociopolitical climate. In addition, both inaccessible and insufficient communication have complicated the understanding of benefit and use of their personal data to participants. People of European genetic ancestry represent ~80% of people in genome-wide association study (GWAS) Some polygenic risk score are ~4x more accurate for people of European genetic ancestry than of African genetic ancestry 7% of significant association have been discovered in individual of African ancestry while only 2% of genome-wide association study (GWAS) participant are of African genetic ancestry Through the initiative we hope to: Earn the trust of diverse community in personalised medicine Expand and improve genomics research with diverse population Improve prognosis, diagnosis, treatment, and care involving genomics for diverse population Our focus area Sickle cell We aim to create a world-leading genomic dataset and patient-designed research agenda for genomic sickle cell research. Maternal health Partnering with community group and research study to improve understanding of maternal inequalities, particularly preterm birth. Equity in genomic medicine and research We aim to embed equity into all the work that we do at Genomics England and support the wider ecosystem to do the same. Emerging technology and method We aim to explore new approach and technologies, and how they can further our understanding of human genetic variation, for everyone. How we tackle our focus areas: Research & discovery: Understand the data gap Improve our understanding of genomic diversity by reviewing, stimulating and conducting research into diversity and it impact on scientific, clinical and health system outcomes. Community & engagement: Close the gaps, together Convene and work with patient, genomic and data community todesign,developand implement equity-enhancing strategies. Sequencing & data: Fill the data gap Increase the volume and depth of genomic dataavailable on individual from under-represented group by sequencing genomes, and generating, linking and facilitating better access to data from diverse populations. Products, tools, & behaviours: Bridge the data gap Work with clinicians, analysts, researchers, patients,and community group to develop tools, and process to improve research, service-delivery practices, recruitment and care. The Diverse Data team You can get to know each member of the team . If you have question about the Diverse Data programme, please use the contact button below. Sam Tallman Genomic Data Scientist Marie Nugent Community Manager Karoline Kuchenbaecker Scientific Lead Matt Silver Lead Genomic Data Scientist Yoonsu Cho Genomics Data Scientist Ellie Orbell Delivery Manager Bemnet Teferi Delivery Manager Paolo Buscemi Ethics Lead Shahla Salehi Service Owner Scientific Delivery Sara Trompeter Clinical Lead - Sickle Cell (Honorary) Trupti Patel Policy Manager Latest blog from the Diverse Data team Often work is shared at the end and ha a shiny, positive slant to it. Issues of data diversity can raise complex scientific, technical a well a social and emotional debates. The Diverse Data Initiative aim to share more during the process to show the journey, and hopefully encourage others to course direct. To learn more about how the team works, interim output and what were thinking, have a read of our blogs. By on 7 Dec 2023 The Genomics England Diverse Data team review the 100,000 Genomes Project for potential bias between group with different ancestries. By on 17 Jul 2023 Our CEO Chris Wigley share some of his hope and dream for the future of Genomics England, the patient and participant we serve, and the wider genomics landscape. By on 14 Jul 2023 Sam Tallman, a genomic data scientist, review an approach commonly used to assign participant into genetically defined ancestry group using genomic data from the 100,000 Genomes Project. Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore other initiative Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Newborn Genomes Programme Newborn Genomes Programme Newborn Genomes Programme Delivering the NHS-embedded Generation Study The Generation Study Every year hundred of baby are born in the UK with rare genetic conditions. Early intervention can enhance the health and quality of life of many of these babies. But these condition can be hard to diagnose, leading to delay in care. The Generation Study is a groundbreaking research study which will sequence the genome of 100,000 newborn babies. We are running our study in partnership with the NHS to understand whether we can improve our ability to diagnose and treat genetic conditions. Our study ha been developed following extensive consultation with the public, parent and family affected by rare condition a well a healthcare professionals, policy maker and scientists. It will involve baby born in a number of different hospital in England and will run until March 2025. The result will add to evidence that will inform future decision on using whole genome sequencing to support newborn screening. This includes using it to accelerate diagnosis and access to treatment for rare conditions. There is more information available on our for parent who are invited to participate in our study. Aims of the Generation Study 1. Identify rare condition in baby earlier The Generation Study will evaluate the utility and feasibility of using genome sequencing to screen newborn baby for a larger number of rare condition that can then be treated in the NHS. This aim to improve their health outcome and quality of life through more timely diagnoses, access to care and treatment. 2. Enable research With parent consent, baby genome and health data will be accessed for wider research about gene and health, so we can investigate new testing and treatment for genetic condition in the future. Approved researcher can access this data in a secure database called without knowing baby identities. 3. Explore the risk and benefit of storing an individual genome over their lifetime Well continue engaging with the public, parents, healthcare professionals, rare disease community and policymakers to look at the possible benefits, risks, ethical and practical implication of storing an individual genome over their lifetime. The rare condition that the Generation Study will screen for We are using whole genome sequencing to look for change in gene linked to more than 200 rare conditions. The condition we test for: Usually appear in the first few year of lifeCan be improved if caught earlyCan be treated through the NHS in England These condition have different type of symptoms, but can all cause someone to be more sick than the average child. To find out more about the condition we are screening for you can have a look at and . How wa our study designed We have worked with parents, the public, rare condition communities, and key stakeholder in the NHS, academia and Government to explore the practical, ethical and societal question our study raise and how best to deliver it. From , we have used a range of approach including user research to co-design our study, develop material collaboratively, and discus with different communities. This work wa essential to receiving Health Research Authority approval to run our study and favourable opinion from the Research Ethics Committee. We are committed to promoting to the Generation Study. Expectant parent from a diversity of backgrounds, socio-economic, geographic and language group will be invited to participate. Our is available on our website. Roadmap 1 Vision development - 2021 2 Co-design of the Generation Study 3 Health Research Authority review of the Generation Study's protocol 4 Recruitment of participant of the Generation Study begin in a selection of the NHS Trusts 5 NHS review of the study to inform future decision on service Why our study is separate from standard NHS care Our study is for research, so it is optional and separate from standard NHS care. Every baby in the UK is currently offered the (the heel prick test). This look for 9 rare, serious and treatable health conditions. It is standard NHS care and is recommended. How is our study addressing ethical question The Generation Study raise a complex set of . Some of these are emerging in newborn genomic screening study globally and some are unique to the UK context. We are embedding an ethically robust approach through tackling these challenge head-on, orientating our study within a strong ethical framework and promoting flexibility in responding to ethical issues. Our discussion on ethical issue like the consent process, withdrawal and recruitment have been assisted by the Newborns Ethics Working Group, and our wider stakeholders. How we look after the data and sample We and sample from all participant in the study. Participants genome and health data are stored in a data base called the National Genomic Research Library. It can only be accessed by approved researcher who wont be able to see the identity of participants. Researchers could come from hospitals, universities, charity or healthcare companies. They can use the data to learn more about gene and health, find new conditions, and develop new treatments. How we have built on our existing knowledge and expertise Through working in partnership with NHS England to deliver the and the , we at Genomics England have established infrastructure to support the use of whole genome sequencing, and the diagnostic and treatment pathway for child and adult with symptoms, and have developed the sequencing and analytical tool to ensure a safe and effective service. We have a strong record of keeping data safe in other study and manage who ha access to the data in the National Genomic Research Library, which includes data from thousand of individual with consent. Information on how parent are invited to take part A network of selected NHS Trusts in England are expected to take part in our study. Only parent with baby born in the participating hospital will be able to take part. Not all the of the hospital will be starting at once. We'll update our website with these hospital trust a our study launches. For parent who are invited to participate in our study, there is more information available on our . Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... 100,000 Genomes Project 100,000 Genomes Project 100,000 Genomes Project Genomics England's very first initiative sequencing 100,000 genome from around 85,000 NHS patient affected by rare disease or cancer is leading to groundbreaking insight and continued finding into the role genomics can play in healthcare. The impact of the project The 100,000 Genomes Project wa a British initiative to sequence and study the role our gene play in health and disease. Recruitment wa completed in December 2018, although research and analysis is still ongoing. Our participant have already helped u find actionable result for many patient with rare disease and cancer. Key fact 18.5% of data from the Project turned into actionable finding 85K+ participants' genome sequenced for the Project 100K+ genome sequenced by December 2018 Aims of the 100,000 Genomes Project Make genomics part of routine healthcare by working closely with the NHS to integrate whole genome sequencing Enhance genomic healthcare research by creating the largest genomic healthcare data resource in the world Uncover answer for participant both now and in the future through genomic-level analysis of condition A world-first study Demonstrating impact A world-first study using data on the 100,000 Genomes Project, and published in the New England Journal of Medicine, ha demonstrated for the first time that whole genome sequencing (WGS) can uncover new diagnosis for people across the broadest range of rare disease investigated to date and could deliver enormous benefit across the NHS.The study looked at over four thousand people from over two thousand family who were early participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project. It found that using WGS led to a new diagnosis for 25% of the participants. Of these new diagnoses, 14% found variation in region of the genome that would be missed by other methods, including other type of non-whole genomic tests. Additional finding analysis Our additional finding analysis focus on looking for gene alteration in a specific list of gene that may increase the risk of people developing certain health conditions. In the case of increased chance of disease, step can be taken to reduce the likelihood of the associated health condition developing or the condition can be treated and monitored. Check Your Choice portal Participants have the opportunity to check whether they have consented to receiving additional finding results, and to let u know if they've changed their minds. Future of the project Future of the project Results from the 100,000 Genomes Project are still being returned to participants. Beyond direct results, an additional and critically important spin off is the importance of this huge amount of data to researchers. Researchers are still using the data from the Project (and will continue to do so for many year to come) to develop new treatments, diagnostics, device and medicines. Only data that participant have consented to share is available to these approved researcher for further study. Delivering the project Delivering the project In 2018, after just 5 years, we sequenced the 100,000th genome and met our goal. The 100,000 Genomes Project ha used the generosity of patient and the outstanding skill and talent found in the medical and the life science sector in the UK to help deliver this project. Genomic Englands legacy is a genomics service that ha been adopted by the NHS, high ethical standard and public support for genomics, new medicines, treatment and diagnostics and a country which host the world leading genomic companies. Background Background In late 2012, Prime Minister David Cameron announced the 100,000 Genomes Project. Genomics England, a company wholly owned and funded by the Department of Health & Social Care, wa set up to deliver this flagship project and sequence 100,000 whole genome from NHS patients, something that at the time no one in the world had even attempted. The project represented a great opportunity to translate our world class genomic science into world leadership in genomic medicine. Future of the project Delivering the project Background Future of the project Results from the 100,000 Genomes Project are still being returned to participants. Beyond direct results, an additional and critically important spin off is the importance of this huge amount of data to researchers. Researchers are still using the data from the Project (and will continue to do so for many year to come) to develop new treatments, diagnostics, device and medicines. Only data that participant have consented to share is available to these approved researcher for further study. Delivering the project In 2018, after just 5 years, we sequenced the 100,000th genome and met our goal. The 100,000 Genomes Project ha used the generosity of patient and the outstanding skill and talent found in the medical and the life science sector in the UK to help deliver this project. Genomic Englands legacy is a genomics service that ha been adopted by the NHS, high ethical standard and public support for genomics, new medicines, treatment and diagnostics and a country which host the world leading genomic companies. Background In late 2012, Prime Minister David Cameron announced the 100,000 Genomes Project. Genomics England, a company wholly owned and funded by the Department of Health & Social Care, wa set up to deliver this flagship project and sequence 100,000 whole genome from NHS patients, something that at the time no one in the world had even attempted. The project represented a great opportunity to translate our world class genomic science into world leadership in genomic medicine. Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Read more about the 100,000 Genomes Project Explore other initiative Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Research and Partnerships About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Patients and Participants Patients and Participants Patients and Participants None of our work would be possible without the consent and support of patient and participant they are at the heart of everything that we do. By enabling scientist and clinician in their research, a patient data go from being an isolated dot to a key part of the picture. The collective power behind improving genomic medicine Participants in genomic medicine and research come from a variety of backgrounds, but share a common interest in wanting the benefit of genomic medicine to be available quickly and widely for themselves, their families, their community and society a a whole. In return, we make sure that participant have a say in how their data is shared and in shaping the programme that use it, because it lead to better decision about how genomics can have an impact on our healthcare and our lives. Where would you like to go? Make a lasting impact Participants who donate their genome sequence and health data can potentially get answer for their own diagnoses, plus provide answer for others with similar conditions, now or in the future. Arthur joined for that reason to find answer for not only him but perhaps his future children, grandchildren, or others who also have been diagnosed with albinism. Watch his story in this short video. Data in our initiative Maintaining your data security and protecting your privacy underpins everything we do. All patient data is held in secure facility based in the UK, accessible only by approved researcher in our secure, cloud-based Research Environment. Current initiative See what we're working on Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more The Participant Panel Providing the lived experience Because of our focus on participant input, we work closely with our Participant Panel, who advise the Genomics England Board and actively engage in decision-making across other committee and boards. It's made up of genomic research participant and their carers. They work to ensure that the voice of those taking part, and their experience and ambitions, inform our work. Important information Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England News and Events Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Taking part Taking part Transform the future of healthcare Genomic medicine is already helping more people receive answer about their health condition through better diagnosis, treatment, and support. By volunteering to take part in research, you'll be making a difference to NHS patient and the future of genomic medicine. How it work As part of your clinical care with the , you may be offered whole genome sequencing. Your clinician may also ask you whether you would like to add your genome sequence and health data to the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL). This is helping patient across the NHS get more answer to their health question through research. It's your choice. If you consent, your data is de-identified and added to the NGRL our secure, national database of genomic and health data. Approved researcher and clinician can then compare your de-identified sample and data with thousand of other people. The more people that take part, the more likely you are to get an accurate diagnosis. The consent journey 1 You and your clinician may decide together that whole genome sequencing might be helpful a part of your care 2 DNA is extracted from a blood sample you give, and then sequenced 3 Your genome (DNA) data is stored and analysed 4 Your clinical team will get the result and discus them with you 5 If you consent to further research, your information will be de-identified and aggregated with thousand of other participants' data 6 Researchers will study the data to gain biological insights, and develop diagnostics and treatment to improve NHS patients' life It's your choice Its up to you whether or not you want to contribute your data to the National Genomic Research Library. If you say no, you will still get your genomic test and it will not change or affect the care you receive from the NHS. Possible benefit of consenting to include your data in the National Genomic Research Library Get answer For you or others now or in the future that could lead to a diagnosis, access to a different treatment, or an opportunity to participate in clinical trial Help others with similar condition Insights from your data may be able to provide answer for people with a similar condition and even those with many other sort of condition Be part of transforming healthcare By participating, you'll be part of a new national approach working with the NHS to bring together health data and genomic data for better patient care The impact of genomic research Jessica's story When Jessica wa just 4 year old, she wa diagnosed with a rare condition. After receiving her sample, and after filtering the result against our curated knowledge base, we were able to find the one causal variant out of the 6.4 million we originally found. A diagnosis made it possible to recommend a special, personalised treatment that help reduce Jessica's symptoms. Focus area and project Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Important information Learn how we use genomic data from consenting patients, who ha access to it, and how it is stored, de-identified, and secured. What happens to your data? How genomic data is gathered via the NHS Genomic Medicine Service and used in the National Genomic Research Library. FAQs on taking part Participants in the 100,000 Genomes Project were asked if they wanted u to look for additional health information in their genome sequence; we call these 'additional findings'. Additional finding Read about the effect that being involved in a genomic project can have on health insurance premium and policies. Does taking part affect my insurance? Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Participant story Participant story Participant story Participants share their story on how genomic testing and medicine impacted their lives, including what getting a diagnosis meant for them. The life-changing impact of genomic medicine Watch this video on Jessica one of the in the 100,000 Genomes Project and how genomic medicine narrowed her diagnosis from 6.4 million possible variant to one. Explore the latest participant story Watch more participants' story Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Our Initiatives Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... The Participant Panel The Participant Panel The Participant Panel The Participant Panel is a key advisory group for Genomics England, working to ensure that the voice of patients, their families, and their experience inform our work. Patient supporting patient and genomic research The Participant Panel is made up of a diverse group of people whose data is held in the . Members come from different walk of life and bring their life experience of rare disease or cancer. The Panel advises the and actively engages in decision-making across other committee and boards, playing a vital role in keeping participant interest at the heart of everything Genomics England does. Mission To bring research participants' lived experience and perspective into decision about participant data, services, and healthcare Data collection and access Overseeing who will have access to the information collected from participants, how that data is stored, and for what purpose it is used. Helping design genomic healthcare service As genomic medicine continues to play a larger part in our healthcare, the Panel is supporting the NHS and it partner to help design more patient-centric, engaging and innovative way to help people who will use NHS genomic service in the future. Putting the data to work Making connection between those carrying out research using genomic data and the community that stand to benefit, agreeing priority and ensuring that patient interest are at the forefront of research efforts. Read our language guide Developed by the Participant Panel, this guide recommends how to talk about the people whose data is curated by Genomics England. Why I joined the Participant Panel Ive been a member of the Participant Panel since it started in April 2016, and wa immediately struck by how much access the Panel member had to the decision-makers at the heart of the Project. We can invite the most senior figure from across the Project to come and discus their work with us, and it is always an honour to engage with them and their colleague on behalf of the other participants. We have sometimes challenged them to do more, and they have usually responded well. Jillian Hastings Ward Chair, Participant Panel Im very pleased to say that since day one, the Panels input is valued at every level of Genomics England. The Panel is trusted and respected, and work hard to ensure patient interest are represented. We ensure our data is protected and used ethically by a growing number of national and international researcher looking to carry out pioneering research and progress our understanding of rare disease and cancer. Rebecca Middleton Vice-Chair, Participant Panel Contact the Panel Please email u including 'Participant Panel' in your subject line if you are interested in joining the Participant Panel or have any question about it work. If you're expressing interest in joining the Panel, please outline why you are interested in this role, and include your name and contact details. Please note: applicant must have direct experience of consenting to take part in genomics research, either a a patient or carer of someone offered whole genome sequencing via the NHS Genomic Medicine Service, the GenOMICC study, or a a participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project. Explore Genomics England Our Initiatives News and Events Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Join our network of community connector Join our network of community connector Join our network of community connector Are you an individual or group dedicated to making a positive impact in communities? Do you want to empower your community and help shape healthcare? Join u in our mission to improve healthcare outcome by including everyone in research. Passionate about healthcare, particularly in the area of genomic medicine, sickle cell, cancer, maternal health and improving the diversity of genomic data? Are you a community health advocate, community facilitator, grassroots organisation, or charity that belief in the power of community engagement to drive positive change working in the UK? If so, we invite you to express your interest in joining our community engagement partnership network a a community connector. About u Genomics England and it engagement community aim to reduce health inequality and improve patient outcome within genomic medicine. Our vision is that all patients, regardless of their background, receive the same quality of genomics-enabled personalised medicine, supported by the latest research designed with and for people like them. Our mission is to bridge the gap between research, medical professionals, patient and communities, to ensure everyones voice is heard. We are now looking to broaden our connection with community in the UK to improve the visibility and understanding of genomics research and how this relates to healthcare, and support people to become more involved in shaping future research. Who are we looking for? We are seeking individuals, group and grassroots organisation with a deep interest in healthcare and a strong desire to engage with community both underrepresented and mainstream, to address the challenge faced by those affected by a range of condition such a sickle cell, cancer, rare disease and maternal health issues. While experience in community engagement is essential, we welcome all level of interest and experience. If you have a passion for promoting and advocating for health equality, and/or equity, work in the UK and are excited to facilitate meaningful discussions, we encourage you to get in touch with us. Our key focus areas: Sickle cell Maternal health issue Newborn screening Rare genetic condition Cancer The future of healthcare and genomics Community driven initiative to bridge healthcare gap Genetic research understanding and dissemination The relationship between our research and healthcare Why join us? Make an impact Your involvement will directly contribute to improved healthcare outcome and increased awareness of genetic research and it relationship with healthcare. Community empowerment You will have the opportunity to empower community with accurate information, resource and a platform for their voice to be heard. Networking Connect with like-minded individuals, researcher and organisation who share your passion and a common goal to improve genomic healthcare for underrepresented communities. Learning and development for you and u This is an opportunity for u to learn from you about barrier and opportunity to involving community and how to mindfully improve our research to be even more beneficial and impactful to affected communities. Likewise, this is also a platform to learn deeply about our research and it implication for you and your community. Engagement strategy We are genuinely excited about the prospect of forming a meaningful partnership with you to develop outstanding engagement initiative and opportunities. Our intention is to collaborate closely, with the aim of commissioning project that will empower, support and encourage active participation within your community. How to express your interest To express your interest in becoming involved, please provide a brief statement in no more than 500 word outlining: Your background and why you are interested in creating space for improved awareness and dialogue around genomic medicine, healthcare issue or the medical condition listed above. Any prior experience in community engagement or relevant activity such a health advocacy. Motivation for working with underrepresented group and promoting health equality. Your desire to learn more about genetic research and it potential impact. A suggested proposal for activity we could host together in your community. There is no deadline for submission but we encourage you submit your interest a soon a you can. You can submit your expression of interest by emailing u at . Genomics England Ambassadors Ambassadors are also part of the community network. In 2021, we launched a campaign called the 'National Conversation on Genomics'. Its ultimate goal is to create a world that understands the benefits, a well a the consequences, of genomic healthcare so that people can make informed decision about their lives. Part of this work involves opening 2-way dialogue with community where we know health inequality exist and who are le engaged if at all with the concept of genomic health. To support, we have partnered with representative of various community to become Genomics England Ambassadors, to use their power of engagement for good, working with them to raise awareness around genomic medicine and research across the country. More information on what it mean to be an Ambassador and how to become one will be shared soon. Our current Ambassadors Aman Ali Genomics England Ambassador Primrose Granville Genomics England Ambassador Amalina Bakri Genomics England Ambassador Our work so far on engaging with community The legacy of language: What we say, and what people hear, when we talk about genomics. This research published in reveals the difference between what we say and what people hear when engaging underrepresented community around genomics and healthcare. Researchers from Wellcome Connecting Science and Genomics England leveraged framing theory and behavioural science to develop alternate way to connect with traditionally disengaged audience and conducted focus group with 100 people from British community of varying backgrounds. The Newborn Genomes Programme Consent Dialogue: Ethnic Minority Community Leaders. wa conducted to better understand how to design and communicate the Newborn Genomes Programme in a way that is fair and inclusive, removing barrier to participation for expectant parent from five ethnic minority communities. Ambassadors and their projects: wa led by Aman Ali and surveyed 1,007 Muslims living in the UK to understand whether pre-conceptions about muslim's attitude towards health research and genomics more broadly are based in fact. The aim of this report is for the finding to help explore how to better engage with Muslims to increase Muslim representation in genetic research. ', led by Primrose Granville, wa filmed in Jamaica. This series wa filmed to understand the difference in sentiment between the Black Caribbean and Black African diaspora in the UK versus majority Black community around the world, and feed these insight into our Diverse Data programme. wa created by Dr Amalina Bakri to explain how genetics screening can help patients' diagnosis and treatment. Get in touch Join u in driving positive change, fostering genomics understanding and making a real difference to the life of individual affected by medical condition and healthcare issues. Together, we can create a more inclusive and equitable healthcare landscape. Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Partnering with key life science player and academic researcher to enhance scientific breakthrough and patient benefits. Accelerating research Research using one of the largest genomic datasets in the UK We partner with world leading researcher from two critical areas: academia and the life science sector. Their research cover a wide scope, from translating genomic and health data into scientific breakthrough to turning pioneering research into the medicines, treatments, and diagnostics that better patients' lives. Data security Access data via our secure, cloud-based AWS platform All analysis on genomic data is done through our secure, AWS cloud-based Research Environment with patient consent and data protection at top of mind. What you'll be able to access Data within the Research Environment currently contains the following type of de-identified information: Genomic data De-identified genomic sequences, variants, and gene from over 100,000 genome so you can compare mass amount of data to support your research. You can see the detail of . Imminently you'll also have access to the de-identified genomic data from over 14,700 COVID-19 study participants. Cancer Rare Disease Total Participants 17,304 72,955 90,259 Genomes 42,922 Cancer Genomes 75,526 Rare disease Genomes 118,448 Clinical data Genomic data on it own can't tell you much without robust patient health data. Our Research Environment collates this information so you can look at the whole picture of what might be causing disease. We're constantly adding more patient and data-depth, such a proteomic and transcriptomic data and digital histopathology. Hospital episode statistic Mental health service data set Clinical actionability of prioritised variant COVID-19 status Tumour staging Tumor location Histological subtype Treatment regimen Pathology full-text Radiology full-text HPO code Mortality data ONS Omics sample A proportion of sample from our rare disease and cancer patient are routinely biobanked, and can be analysed alongside whole genome sequencing data to better understand the overarching picture of disease. Samples available include stabilised blood for a variety of omics applications. View summary data on the Public Data Browser To see an overview of the data held within our Research Environment, you can use our Public Data Browser. NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS) Research Collaborative The NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS) Research Collaborative is a partnership between the , Genomics England and the (NIHR) to support genomic research and development on a national scale. Our Research Vision Online text format of the Research Vision coming soon, or download the PDF below. Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Our Initiatives Genomic Healthcare News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Academic research Academic research Join the Genomics England Research Network Join a global network of academics, clinicians, and student using one of the world's largest genomic datasets. Already a member? What is the Genomics England Research Network? A network of approved researcher with access to the Genomics England Research Environment. This secure workspace provides a place to carry out research on de-identified datasets in the , gaining novel disease and patient-related insights. The aim is to enable scientific discovery and accelerate it translation into patient care. Who can join: Academic researcher (worldwide) Clinicians (worldwide) Students and post-doctoral researcher within relevant area of study (worldwide) Charities and government department that carry out significant research Our mission Improve patients' life Increase the medical impact on patient by advancing secure, shared access to relevant genomic data between researcher and clinicians. Scientific discovery Support researcher using our data for basic science, target discovery, predictive modelling, and translational research for clinical trials, a well a oversee data access and security. Collaborative community We encourage academic to work together to solve fundamental problem that matter to patients, and also aim to foster commercial and academic collaboration. The Research Network and it community Our Research Network is organised into communities'. These community consist of researchers, NHS clinical disease experts, NHS healthcare professional and trainee that that share mutual methodological approach and research goals. When you join, you'll be asked to join the community that are most relevant to your work. The Research Network Researchers and clinicians, from both academia and the NHS, are working together to continually analyse data from the Genomics England datasets with the aim of creating better clinical understanding and better patient outcomes. 1400+ Researchers 84 Institutions 620+ Academic research project 90+ Publications Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GECIP) rule Expectations of Research Network member (formerly GECIP members) There are expectation of member of the Research Network that go beyond data access and analysis. These include: Contribution to the knowledge base for genome interpretation (for example via ) Active and effective collaboration within your research community and with other community Expert assistance in genome interpretation to improve diagnostic yield for NHS Genomic Medicine Centres (GMCs) Contribution to training within your community where needed Contribution to the ongoing management and administration of the research community where requested Other activity in line with the provision of the GECIP Rules* (*These will be updated with the Research Network Code of Conduct imminently) Areas of focus Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Life science partnership Life science partnership Life Science Partnerships We partner with the world leading pharmaceutical company and biotech through our Discovery Forum to unlock genomic data and accelerate new treatment development. Already a member? Accelerating research from pathway discovery to clinical trial As a member of the Discovery Forum, you'll get access to our secure . This provides a range of open-source tools, database and research platform that link genomic data to a rich set of clinical, phenotypic and longitudinal data. Researchers can also develop their own software/pipelines that can then be run on Genomics Englands high-performance compute (HPC) facilities. Partnerships with impact Join a growing community of partner working with u on cutting-edge research 8/10 Tier 1 pharma company 560 Ongoing research project 90+ Scientific publication How we work with industry partner Joining the Discovery Forum allows you to gain access to the world largest community in genomic healthcare and medical research, embedded in the NHS. Benefit from our bioinformatic, scientific, and clinical expertise, a well a a research environment with the world largest whole genome disease cohort for cancer and rare disease, with linked longitudinal healthcare data.Our independent Access Review Committee ensures that all partner are bona fide research organisations, committed to research that support the interest of our participant and the community they represent. What make our data distinctive World's largest cohort of whole genome sequence data Cancer: 17,000 participant with tumour normal pairsRare Diseases: 83,000 participant (family trio in majority of cases)COVID-19: ~30,000 in the mild v severe cohort Linked longitudinal clinical data Snomed, CD10 and HPO termsLongitudinal disease registries, hospital episode data, pathology and radiology reports, drug regimen, and outcome data Broad consent Academic and commercial researchFor engagement to re-phenotype, re-sample, recruitLifetime follow-up of all clinical data Upcoming advancement Long-read and methylation sequencing in cancerRadiogenomics in cancer (H&E and radiology images) Why work with u We can support you across the entire drug development journey Target identification & biomarker discovery Our data is annotated using Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor, ClinVar, loss of function annotation from loftee, population specific allele frequency from gnomAD and ExAC, a well a extensive non-coding annotation for epigenetic marker from ENCODE, Roadmap and spliceAI. Coupled with longitudinal clinical data this enables - rapid variant prioritisation and target discovery. RWE for disease natural history study & cost-effectiveness analysis Genomics England brings together participant consent for lifetime clinical follow-up, and extensive technical integration with national data registry like HES, the cancer registry, and ONS death data to create a powerful epidemiological analysis and longitudinal RWE resource for health economic analysis and HTA submissions. Rare disease patient recruitment Participants with rare and ultra-rare indication have consented for recruitment to interventional and non-interventional studies. This requires clinical review, which is carried out by our healthcare team and the participant lead consultant. Advanced clinical trial design & patient stratification Validate patient stratification strategy on retrospective data; generate molecularly targeted surrogate end-points and other biomarker strategy by working with our data and our network of clinical academic key opinion leaders. Functional genomics pipeline Participants can be recalled for re-sampling, creating a genetically characterised human tissue resource for target validation and functional genomic screen in cell lines, iPSCs and organoids. Companion diagnostic development Support your diagnostic filing submission by validating the predictive value of your diagnostic test using our clinical, genomic, and outcome data. Genomics England's ecosystem Collaboration between healthcare organisation and biotech company Get in touch What project are you working on? Our ecosystem of partner is very diverse, from top tier biopharma company to a wide range of genomic-centric biotech and start-ups. As a result, were constantly evolving our offering if you have idea on how we could develop a partnership together please email us. Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Members' home Members' home Members' area Discovery Forum and Research Network member can find training, support, and information on the Research Portal and Research Environment. Having trouble logging in? Research Network Log in to the Research Portal The Research Portal is where you can go to manage your account detail and other administrative tasks, a well a search through registered research project and tracking your own research applications. If you've already applied to the Research Network (academics, clinicians, and students), you can use the button below to log in to your account. Once logged in, you'll be able to: Track application to join a domain (academics, clinicians, and student only) Submit and track research project Access information governance training Research Network + Discovery Forum Log in to the Research Environment The secure Research Environment is where all approved researcher can access the most up-to-date Genomics England dataset the largest of it kind in the world. If you've already applied to (academics, clinicians, and students) or the (industry partners), you can use the button below to log in to your account. Once logged in, you'll be able to: Perform analysis on the dataset Access Genomics England's high-performance compute cluster You must be a member of the or to log in. Need assistance? Contact the Service Desk If you have question or are experiencing issue using the Research Environment or Research Portal at any time, please contact our Service Desk. Research output See the research conducted using the Genomics England dataset View the list of journal publication that include the Genomics England dataset a well a guidance on presenting research using our data. Browse registered project and see what other researcher are working on, plus information on registering your research projects. View summary data on the Public Data Browser To see an overview of the data held within our Research Environment, you can use our Public Data Browser. Research Domains Research Network communities(8) Bioinformatics and Machine Learning community Research in this community will focus on the development, refinement, validation and application of bioinformatics approach to interrogate data in the NGRL and maximise the ability for clinically relevant discovery. It will facilitate the open exchange and sharing of computational idea and methods, including powerful machine learning approaches. It will also ensure best practice in clinical interpretation analysis, work with disease group to provide access to world-leading statistical and computational data analysis expertise; and provide training and support a world-leading workforce in support of genomic-based healthcare. Domain lead Professor Chris Yau University of Oxford Dr David Morris King's College London Genotype-Phenotype Association community The research of this community will seek to identify novel variant-trait association and identify where such genotypic information can be leveraged for clinical application; such a the provision of polygenic risk score and development of screening and treatment strategies. Particular attention will be given to the analysis of ancestry underrepresented in genomic research. This community will implement and improve tool for such analyses. Domain lead Professor Diana Baralle University of Southampton Dr Gavin Arno UCL Implementation and Data Enhancement community Research in this community will explore the social, economic, legal, and ethical effectiveness of Genomic Medicine in the NHS, a well a work to improve data quality and availability. Domain lead Professor AJ McKnight Queens University Belfast Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology community The Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology community will carry out research across all tumour and germline sample present in the NGRL. It will use the data to identify and investigate driver mutation across tumours, to find functional alteration and impaired biological mechanism common to all/many cancers, and to establish whether there are common mutational signature that affect treatment efficacy and toxicity Domain lead Professor Richard Houlston Institute of Cancer Research Professor Anna Schuh University of Oxford Population Genomics community This research aim to improve our understanding of human genetic variation and the process that shape it, such a demography, ancestry, natural selection and genetic mutation. It also aim to elucidate the genomic contribution to disease and health in the population, and to inform diagnosis, treatment and the potential impact of interventions. Domain lead Dr Aylwyn Scally University of Cambridge Professor Jean-Baptiste Cazier Francis Crick Institute Predisposition and Screening community The Predisposition and Screening community will analyse genome data from family and individual in the NGRL, including participant in the Generation Study and Diverse Data initiative, to identify de novo and inherited variant causing or predisposing to disease in diverse ancestries. Domain lead Professor Elijah Behr St George's University Professor Sanjay Sisodiya UCL Therapeutic Innovation and Trials community This community will support research that propels genomic and clinical insight and discovery into therapeutic development and application. Domain lead Professor Danny Gale UCL Dr Haiyan Zhou UCL Variant Discovery and Clinical Interpretation community Research in this community will strive to provide molecular diagnosis for participant by identifying or validating variant that explain previously undiagnosed case and feeding these discovery back into clinical practice via the appropriate pathways. New tool and data will be leveraged to tackle challenge and improve of ability to rapidly and reliably identify disease variants. Domain lead Professor Sophie Hambleton Newcastle University Professor Caroline Wright University of Exeter Browse existing GECIP domain Use the menu to find information about each domain and research using data from the National Genomic Research Library. Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Genomic Healthcare News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Publications Publications Publications Find out more about publication arising from research on National Genomic Research Library data, conference and poster submission and our Publication Policy. For any questions, please contact u via email. Research publication by domain Type here to search 344 publication Data usage Genomics England All source Alona Sosinsky, John Ambrose, William Cross, et al. Nature Medicine Jan 2024 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-023-02682-0 Zhongbo Chen, Emil K Gustavsson, Hannah Macpherson, et al. Movement Disorders Jan 2024 DOI: 10.1002/mds.29704 Alfredo Dueas Rey, Marta del Pozo Valero, Manon Bouckaert, et al Genome Medicine Jan 2024 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13073-023-01277-1 J Robert Harkness, Huw B Thomas, Jill E Urquhart, et al European Journal of Medical Genetics Dec 2023 DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2023.104907 Vincenzo Salpietro, Reza Maroofian, Maha S. Zaki et al. American Journal of Human Genetics Dec 2023 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2023.11.012 Load more Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search News News News Filter Topics Company update Cancer Healthcare Industry & partnership Rare disease Research Participants Press release Newborns Diverse Data Community engagement Apply filter Latest 16 Apr 2024 13 Mar 2024 29 Feb 2024 13 Feb 2024 18 Jan 2024 11 Jan 2024 Load more Media contact Follow u Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Patients and Participants About u About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Events Events Events Filter Event topic Cancer Diverse data Ethics Newborn screening Rare disease Research Clinical Policy Bioinformatics Genetic counselling Event type Genomics England Research Seminar Healthcare workforce training Research Environment Training Session Genomic Equity Series 2023 World Congress on Genetic Counselling Apply filter Upcoming Genomics England event Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend Research Environment training session for Research Network or Discovery Forum member only. 14 May 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend talk presented by Research Network member on the latest research. 28 May 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend Research Environment training session for Research Network or Discovery Forum member only. 11 Jun 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend talk presented by Research Network member on the latest research. 25 Jun 2024 Join u at the Genomics England Research Summit 2024! 9 Jul 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend Research Environment training session for Research Network or Discovery Forum member only. 16 Jul 2024 Load more Past event Genomics England's annual summit highlight the top research happening in genomic medicine. 4 May 2022 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend talk presented by Research Network member on the latest research. 30 Apr 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend Research Environment training session for Research Network or Discovery Forum member only. 9 Apr 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend talk presented by Research Network member on the latest research. 26 Mar 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend Research Environment training session for Research Network or Discovery Forum member only. 12 Mar 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend talk presented by Research Network member on the latest research. 27 Feb 2024 Genomics England's monthly, free-to-attend Research Environment training session for Research Network or Discovery Forum member only. 13 Feb 2024 Load more Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Blog Blog Blog Filter Topics Cancer Participant story Newborns Research Bioinformatics Rare disease Diverse Data Participant Panel Clinical care Researcher on the rise Genomics 101 Apply filter Latest By on 2 May 2024 This blog describes how we used a gene panel from an external resource to improve the gene coverage for testing patient with developmental disorder in the NHS GMS. By on 15 Apr 2024 In this series, Genomics 101, we go back to basic and explore some of the most important topic in genomics. In this blog, we talk through the difference between RNA and DNA. By on 21 Mar 2024 Genomics 101 go back to basic to explore some of the most important topic in genomics. In this blog we explain the term ethics, and why it is so important in genomic research. By on 20 Mar 2024 This blog talk through the structure of our Research Network and how the community is gaining new insight about genomics and our health. By on 23 Feb 2024 In this series, Genomics 101, we go back to basic and explore some of the most important topic in genomics. In this blog, we talk through the Generation Study and what it aim to do. By on 19 Feb 2024 Genomics 101 go back to basic to explore some important topic in genomics. This blog explains what we mean by 'rare conditions', how they are caused, and what we can do to treat them. Load more Media contact Follow u Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Our Initiatives About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Podcasts Podcasts Podcasts The G Word: Our podcast talking about all thing genomics Join u every fortnight, where we cover everything from the latest in cutting-edge research to real-life story from those affected by rare condition and cancer. With thoughtful conversations, we take you behind the science. You can also tune in to our Genomics 101 explainer series which break down complex term in under 10 minutes. The G Word is available to listen through all major podcast listening apps, such a iTunes, Spotify and Amazon Music. If you cannot find our podcast on your preferred app, . Load more Media contact Follow u Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search About Us About Us Turning science into healthcare Genomics England aim to help everyone benefit from genomic healthcare. Our strategy Powering the future of healthcare Our mission is to continue refining, scaling, and evolving our ability to enable others to deliver genomic healthcare and conduct genomic research. Our aim Transforming healthcare Working with the NHS to deliver and continually improve genomic testing to help doctor and clinician diagnose, treat and prevent illnesses, like rare disease and cancer. Accelerating research Providing the health data and advanced technology researcher need to make new medical discovery and create more effective medicine for patient and their families. Protecting citizen and leading the ethic debate Keeping data security at the forefront of everything we do, and engaging with the public to continue building trust and transparency around our programme and outputs. How we help others Enabling dialogue on consent, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment. Providing reliable genomic insight that are easy to request and interpret. Accelerating research by providing data, infrastructure, insight and environment to collaborate on fundamental and translational research. Our history 2012 Former Prime Minister David Cameron announced the 100,000 Genomes Project at the 2012 London Olympics 2013 Genomics England announced by Jeremy Hunt, former Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, a part of the NHS 65th birthday celebration 2015 First patient receives effective, personalised treatment a a result of diagnosis through the 100,000 Genomes Project 2016 Former Prime Minister Theresa May open a new Sequencing Centre 2017 Then-Chief Medical Officer Dame Sally Davies launch Generation Genome and the Life Sciences report 2018 The NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS) work to drive more personalised treatment and enable the routine use of whole genome sequencing for patient December 2018 100,000th genome sequence is achieved. 2019 Chris Wigley join Genomics England a CEO and a new strategy is defined to build on and beyond the 100,000 Genomes Project. 2020 UK Government publishes it goal to establish the UK a the most advanced genomic healthcare system in the world. Genomics England will play a key role in embedding whole genome sequencing a part of routine healthcare 2021 Genomics England joined the national effort to help combat the pandemic through the COVID-19 GenOMICC Study. Findings are already helping doctor make better decision about how to treat patient with COVID-19. Our latest Annual Report You can access the , or download the PDF below. Our initiative See what we're working on Our initiative to integrate long-read sequencing technology and multimodal Learn more Working in collaboration with researcher and the NHS, our Diverse Data Learn more Read about our partnership with the GenOMICC consortium, led by the Learn more Information on the 100,000 Genomes Project, including an overview of the Learn more Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe The Department of Health and Social Care set up Genomics England in 2013. We are a company owned by the . The Secretary of State is the only shareholder. Explore Genomics England About u About u Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Governance Governance Turning science into healthcare Genomics England aim to help everyone benefit from genomic healthcare. Select team Leadership Team Leadership Team Board Participant Panel Science Advisory Committee Ethics Advisory Committee Access Review Committee Research Network Committee Research Network Community Leads Leadership Team The Executive Leadership Team work alongside the Board of Directors to set and influence our strategic direction, while providing leadership both within the organisation and externally, a ambassador and thought leaders. Dr Richard Scott Chief Executive Officer Dr Ellen Thomas Interim Chief Medical Officer Professor Matt Brown Chief Scientific Officer Catherine Byers Chief Financial and Performance Officer Jackie Kinsey Chief People Officer Nick Maltby General Counsel, Company Secretary and Data Protection Officer Rakhi Rajani Chief Digital and Strategy Officer Dr Augusto Rendon Chief Bioinformatician Pete Sinden Chief Information Officer Chris Schonewald Chief of Staff and Director of Strategy Board The Genomics England Board oversees all of our activities, ratifies all major decision and set the overall strategy for the organisation. Genomics England ha several independent advisory committee that report to the board. These include the Ethics Advisory Committee, Science Advisory Committee, Data Advisory Committee, Access Review Committee, GeCIP Board and the Audit Committee. Dr Richard Scott Chief Executive Officer Baroness Nicola Blackwood Chair Dr Vikram Bajaj Non-Executive Director Professor Sir John Bell Non-Executive Director, Chair of Scientific Advisory Committee Professor Ewan Birney Non-Executive Director Professor Matt Brown Chief Scientific Officer Roz Campion Director, Office for Life Sciences Dr Annalisa Jenkins Non-Executive Director Nicola Perrin MBE Non-Executive Director Dr Keith Stewart Non-Executive Director Sir Jonathan Symonds CBE Non-Executive Director Participant Panel The Participant Panel sits at the heart of Genomics England and is made up of participant from the 100,000 Genomes Project, and parent or carers of people involved in this project. It is expanding to include patient and relative from the GenOMICC COVID-19 study and NHS patient who give consent for their whole genome sequence and associated health data to be used for research in the Genomics England National Genomic Research Library. The Panel act a an advisory body to the Genomics England Board, working to ensure that the health data held by Genomics England is being looked after with respect and used in the best interest of our participants. Jillian Hastings Ward Chair of the Participant Panel Rebecca Middleton Vice Chair for Rare Conditions Helen White Vice Chair for Cancer Frances Allan Participant Panel member Paul Arvidson Participant Panel member Lisa Beaton Participant Panel member Cecily Berryman Participant Panel member Dr Helen Bulbeck Participant Panel member Dr Latha Chandramouli Participant Panel member Mel Dixon Participant Panel member Alison Fox Participant Panel member Clarissa Hopkins Participant Panel member Hannah Humphrey Participant Panel member Ismael Kherroubi Garca Participant Panel member Anthony Locke Participant Panel member Dave McCormick Participant Panel member Helen Mendis Participant Panel member Hannah Podd Participant Panel Member Shelley Simmonds Participant Panel member Dominique Stephens Participant Panel member Emma Walters Participant Panel member Science Advisory Committee Our independent Science Advisory Committee advises the Genomics England Board on scientific aspect of the company's projects. This includes overseeing: disease inclusion criteria; Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GeCIP) domain formation; data access request applications; and patient recruitment strategies. The Committee considers the interest of patients, the public, scientist and clinician engaged in genomic research or genomic medicine. Professor Sir John Bell Non-Executive Director, Chair of Scientific Advisory Committee Professor Tim Aitman University of Edinburgh James Brenton Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute Professor Sir John Burn Newcastle University Professor Patrick Chinnery University of Cambridge David Church Andrew Fry Professor Dame Sue Hill NHS England Professor Matthew Hurles Wellcome Sanger Institute Professor Mark Lawler HDR UK Professor David Lomas Deputy Chair, Scientific Advisory Committee Professor Anna Schuh University of Oxford Professor Matt Seymour University of Leeds Dr Samra Turajlic Cancer Research UK Professor Andrew Wilkie University of Oxford Ethics Advisory Committee Our independent Ethics Advisory Committee identifies, defines, examines and responds to ethical issue in the 100,000 Genomes Project. They also help to ensure the Project is delivered in the interest of the public and of participants. They provide timely advice, guidance, review and recommendation on ethical issues, a requested by the Board. Dr Latha Chandramouli Participant Panel member Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery Chair of the Ethics Advisory Committee Francis Crawley Executive Director, Good Clinical Practice Alliance Professor Angus Clarke Cardiff University Anne Croudass Cancer Research UK Professor Adam Hedgecoe Professor of Social Science, Cardiff University Associate Professor Ruth Horn Associate Professor in Ethics, Ethox Hannah Humphrey Participant Panel member Ismael Kherroubi Garca Participant Panel member Dr Mavis Machirori Senior Researcher, Ada Lovelace Institute Dr Pete Mills Executive Director at the PHG Foundation Nicola Perrin MBE Non-Executive Director Dr Nadeem Qureshi University of Nottingham Professor Rameen Shakur Professor of Genomics and Precision Cardiovascular Medicine Nechama Wieder PhD Candidate in Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford Access Review Committee The Access Review Committees (ARC) role is toprovide an independent examinationandresponseto request for accesstogenomic and healthdataheldin theGenomics EnglandNational Genomic Research Library.These request come fromacademicresearchers, clinicians, and commercialresearchers. There is a set application process for theseindividualsto go through to access the data. The ARC review these applicationstocheckthatthey are in line with the aim of theNational GenomicResearch LibraryProtocoland toassess whetherthey arein the interest of both the public and the participants. Dr Christine Patch Chair of the Access Review Committee Natasha Dunkley Head of Digital Strategy, Welsh Government Jillian Hastings Ward Chair of the Participant Panel Helen White Vice Chair for Cancer Clarissa Hopkins Participant Panel member Hannah Podd Participant Panel Member Dr Simon Stockley General Practitioner Dr Shereen Tadros Consultant in Clinical Genetics, GOSH Danielle Wilson Centre and Research Commercialisation Manager, Imperial College Research Network Committee The Research Network Committee oversees the operation of the Research Network and includes a range of representative from across the Research Network communities. Three place on the Research Network Committee are reserved for the representative of the Participant Panel and they contribute and vote a any other member of the Research Network Committee. The individual Participant Panel representative are free to rotate attendance at the Research Network Committee according to their availability. Professor Eamonn Sheridan Chair of the Research Network Committee Dr Helen Bulbeck Participant Panel member Professor Dame Sue Hill NHS England Dave McCormick Participant Panel member Helen Mendis Participant Panel member Professor John Sayer Deputy Chair and Research representative Dr Nicky Whiffin Quantitative Genomics representative Dr Catherine Taylor Clinical representative Dr Letizia Vestito Early Career Researcher representative Professor Claude Chelala Data Science representative Dr William Macken Early Career Researcher representative Research Network Community Leads Our Research Network Community Leads spearhead, represent and advise the 8 cross-functional community that make up our Research Network. Championing their respective community interests, the lead engage with Genomics England to identify strategic research and funding opportunities. The Community Leads drive collaborations, skill-sharing and meaningful interaction between member of their communities, streamlining the way genomic research is carried out. Professor Richard Houlston Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology lead Professor Anna Schuh Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology co-lead Professor Elijah Behr Predisposition and Screening lead Professor Sanjay Sisodiya Predisposition and Screening co-lead Professor Sophie Hambleton Variant Discovery and Clinical Interpretation lead Professor Caroline Wright Variant Discovery and Clinical Interpretation co-lead Professor Christopher Yau Bioinformatics and Machine Learning lead Dr David Morris Bioinformatics and machine learning co-lead Professor Daniel Gale Therapeutic Innovations and Trials lead Dr Haiyan Zhou Therapeutic Innovations and Trials co-lead Dr Aylwyn Scally Population Genomics lead Professor Jean-Baptiste Cazier Population Genomics co-lead Professor Amy Jayne McKnight Implementation and Data Enhancement lead Professor Diana Baralle Genotype-Phenotype Association lead Dr Gavin Arno Genotype-Phenotype Association co-lead Scroll to top Explore Genomics England About u About u News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... 10 year 10 year 10 year of Genomics England This year, we celebrate the achievement of the past 10 years. We also look ahead to all the work thats left to be done, the discovery yet to be made, and a world where genomic medicine can help everyone, everywhere. #ourDNAdecade A decade of life-changing discovery in genomics July 2023 mark 10 year of Genomics England. Over the past decade, our partnership with the NHS ha brought life-changing discovery to those living with cancer and rare conditions. This year, we celebrate the achievement of the past 10 years. We also look ahead to all the work thats left to be done, the discovery yet to be made, and a world where genomic medicine can help everyone, everywhere. Major milestones, 2013 to 2023 5 July 2013 Jeremy Hunt, former Secretary of State, announces Genomics England. March 2015 The first patient receive a diagnosis a a result of our flagship initiative, the 100,000 Genomes Project April 2016 The Participant Panel is established to represent the diverse voice and lived experience of participant July 2017 Two major report Generation Genome and the Life Sciences report published July 2017 Our Research Environment is created to provide approved researcher with access to data, enabling scientific discovery that can be accelerated to patient care October 2018 The NHS Genomic Medicine Service set up to routinely use genomic testing in healthcare is announced December 2018 The 100,000th genome is sequenced January 2019 The NHS publishes a long-term plan, setting integration of genomics into healthcare a a priority January 2020 We join force with the GenOMICC Study to help understand why COVID-19 affect some people more severely than others November 2020 The first whole genome is sequenced on the NHS Genomic Medicine Service October 2021 Our expansion continues a our Newborn Genome Sequencing and Diverse Data initiative are announced December 2022 The government reinforces it focus on genomics, highlighting our initiative January 2023 To date, 230 academic or clinical institution have access to data in the National Genomic Research Library, 699 research project are working with this data, and 139 paper have been published The life-changing impact of genomics Through the 100,000 Genomes Project, thousand of people living with rare condition and cancer have received diagnoses. Many of these would not have been previously detectable. While our aim is to get diagnosis for everyone, we also recognise that many others are still waiting for answers. One of the first child to be diagnosed, whole genome sequencing narrowed down the possible cause of Jessicas rare condition from 6.4 million variant to one. Bhavini share how having a genetic diagnosis answered so many question for her, and ha empowered her to help raise awareness and break down cultural taboos. Tom ha lived with an ultra-rare skin disorder called pachyonychia congenita his entire life. Having lived with a rare form of sarcoma cancer for 20 years, Rachel had whole genome sequencing in 2017 to get more answers. Owen ha an ultra-rare thyroid condition, only detected in 30 people worldwide. Sol doesn't have a genetic diagnosis for his sight loss condition yet, but he share how he hope his health data can help aid in future genomic research. Special anniversary podcasts Supporting patient journey in a changing genomics landscape How ha patient support ha evolved over the last decade? How will it continue to change in the next 10 years? Participant Panel member, Shelley Simmonds, sits down with Louise Fish and Amanda Pichini to talk about these question and more. From left to right: Louise Fish, CEO of Genetic Alliance UK; Shelley Simmonds, host and Participant Panel member; and Amanda Pichini, Clinical Lead for Genetic Counselling at Genomics England. Reaching the full potential of genomic research Is the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL) meeting it full potential? What is the future direction for research at Genomics England? How will Genomics England help research participant connect with those researching their gene or condition? Participant Panel member, Dave McCormick, sits down with Matt Brown and Jenny Taylor to talk about these question and more. From left to right: Matt Brown, Chief Scientific Officer at Genomics England; Dave McCormick, host and Participant Panel member; and Jenny Taylor, member of our research community. The partnership that made it all possible Weve helped the NHS to build the first healthcare system in the world to offer whole genome sequencing a part of routine care. One in 17 people are affected by a rare condition in their lifetime and nearly 300,000 people are diagnosed with cancer in the UK each year. Genomic testing including the whole genome sequencing that we support aim to get better answers, treatment and care for them, faster. Driving discovery through our research community Since 2017, our research community ha been enabling new, life-changing discoveries. 1,700+ academic researcher approved and registered to access data in the National Genomic Research Library 699 research project are working with this data 29 approved industry partner (including 7 of the 10 biggest pharmaceutical companies) 139 publication using data from the National Genomic Research Library Latest 10-year anniversary blog We've asked member of the Genomics England team to look back on the past decade, and ahead at what the future might hold for genomics. By on 17 Jul 2023 Our CEO Chris Wigley share some of his hope and dream for the future of Genomics England, the patient and participant we serve, and the wider genomics landscape. By on 11 Jul 2023 Chris Wigley share his top 10 highlight from the last decade in honour of our 10-year anniversary. By on 27 Jun 2023 As Genomics England celebrates it 10-year anniversary this July, the Chair and Vice Chairs of the Participant Panel reflect on the Panels significant impact. What will the next decade hold? The age of genomics ha started. And there more to be done. With the NHS, we hope to sequence thousand more whole genome via the NHS Genomic Medicine Service, and continue to analyse the genome of people who havent yet had answers. Technology and genomic research continue to advance. In the coming decades, we hope to harness this power to enable new scientific breakthroughs, and in turn, help more patients. Explore Genomics England About u Genomic Healthcare Our Initiatives Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Bioinformatics and data science Bioinformatics and data science Bioinformatics and data science Making sense of genomic and healthcare data to improve diagnosis, treatments, and life of patients. World-leading bioinformatics, life-changing result Our bioinformatics and data science team play a crucial part in the analysis of patient genomes. At the forefront of the genomics industry, our team use high-performance cutting-edge computing tools, technologies, and technique to find and interpret genetic variation in undiagnosed rare disease and cancer patients, from newborn to adulthood. >170K genome processed 3.8M variant in the Clinical Variant Ark 8,100+ positive diagnosis for rare disease patient and family 20-55% diagnostic rate depending on clinical indication Areas of work Bioinformatics at Genomics England includes a wide range of scientific and technological areas. Beyond genomic data, our bioinformaticians also work with other type of "omics" and clinical data. Bioinformatics operation Support end-to-end sample flow from submission to genome delivery. Work closely with the Genomic Laboratory Hubs (GLHs) and research cohort to deliver interpreted results, monitor data exchanges, and manage queries. Bioinformatics engineering Develop high quality code and product to deliver meaningful result to clinical scientist in the NHS. Implement cutting edge bioinformatics technology in pipeline and tool using best practice in software engineering. Genome analysis Drive the development of cutting-edge genome analysis approach for diverse clinical applications, enabling world-leading personalised healthcare for everyone. Bioinformatics research service Enable and support high quality research using the unique Genomics England datasets, and engage with academic researcher and pharma partner to accelerate scientific discovery to benefit patients. Applied machine learning Accelerate progress for patient and research partner through the application of machine learning and other advanced data analytics. This is done using different type of patient-derived datasets, such a multi-omics, free text, imaging and other type of clinical data. Scientific curation Impact the analysis of every patient genome by keeping knowledge of gene and variant associated with disease up to date through crowdsourcing and collaboration with disease expert world-wide. Get the latest update straight to your inbox Subscribe Subscribe First name Last name Email address Preferred format HTML Plain-text Sign-up to our newsletter Please tick the box to confirm that Genomics England can contact you with relevant updates. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Subscribe Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Research and Partnerships Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Apply to join Apply to join Join the Genomics England Research Network Join a global network of academics, clinicians, and student using one of the world's largest genomic datasets. Already a member? Apply to join 1 Check your institution is registered 2 Choose your domain 3 Submit application form 1 Make sure your institution is registered Country Please select your country Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada China Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Hong Kong Hungary India Ireland Italy Japan Korea, Rep. Netherlands New Zealand Poland Portugal Qatar Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan United Kingdom United States Israel Czech Republic Singapore Institution Select from list Institution not registered? Before you can apply, your institution need to sign our Participation Agreement. Email completed agreement to 2 Browse existing GECIP domain Research Domains Research Network communities(8) Bioinformatics and Machine Learning community Research in this community will focus on the development, refinement, validation and application of bioinformatics approach to interrogate data in the NGRL and maximise the ability for clinically relevant discovery. It will facilitate the open exchange and sharing of computational idea and methods, including powerful machine learning approaches. It will also ensure best practice in clinical interpretation analysis, work with disease group to provide access to world-leading statistical and computational data analysis expertise; and provide training and support a world-leading workforce in support of genomic-based healthcare. Domain lead Professor Chris Yau University of Oxford Dr David Morris King's College London Genotype-Phenotype Association community The research of this community will seek to identify novel variant-trait association and identify where such genotypic information can be leveraged for clinical application; such a the provision of polygenic risk score and development of screening and treatment strategies. Particular attention will be given to the analysis of ancestry underrepresented in genomic research. This community will implement and improve tool for such analyses. Domain lead Professor Diana Baralle University of Southampton Dr Gavin Arno UCL Implementation and Data Enhancement community Research in this community will explore the social, economic, legal, and ethical effectiveness of Genomic Medicine in the NHS, a well a work to improve data quality and availability. Domain lead Professor AJ McKnight Queens University Belfast Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology community The Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology community will carry out research across all tumour and germline sample present in the NGRL. It will use the data to identify and investigate driver mutation across tumours, to find functional alteration and impaired biological mechanism common to all/many cancers, and to establish whether there are common mutational signature that affect treatment efficacy and toxicity Domain lead Professor Richard Houlston Institute of Cancer Research Professor Anna Schuh University of Oxford Population Genomics community This research aim to improve our understanding of human genetic variation and the process that shape it, such a demography, ancestry, natural selection and genetic mutation. It also aim to elucidate the genomic contribution to disease and health in the population, and to inform diagnosis, treatment and the potential impact of interventions. Domain lead Dr Aylwyn Scally University of Cambridge Professor Jean-Baptiste Cazier Francis Crick Institute Predisposition and Screening community The Predisposition and Screening community will analyse genome data from family and individual in the NGRL, including participant in the Generation Study and Diverse Data initiative, to identify de novo and inherited variant causing or predisposing to disease in diverse ancestries. Domain lead Professor Elijah Behr St George's University Professor Sanjay Sisodiya UCL Therapeutic Innovation and Trials community This community will support research that propels genomic and clinical insight and discovery into therapeutic development and application. Domain lead Professor Danny Gale UCL Dr Haiyan Zhou UCL Variant Discovery and Clinical Interpretation community Research in this community will strive to provide molecular diagnosis for participant by identifying or validating variant that explain previously undiagnosed case and feeding these discovery back into clinical practice via the appropriate pathways. New tool and data will be leveraged to tackle challenge and improve of ability to rapidly and reliably identify disease variants. Domain lead Professor Sophie Hambleton Newcastle University Professor Caroline Wright University of Exeter Browse existing GECIP domain Use the menu to find information about each domain and research using data from the National Genomic Research Library. 3 Submit an application form Join the Research Network (formerly known a GECIP) Once you've confirmed your institution is registered and have found a domain of interest, apply using the button below. Our guideline These guideline outline the required behaviour and working practice within the data infrastructure. What happens after you apply We send you a username and temporary password via email. Use these to set up an account on our Research Portal. You can log in and track your application from there. Once you have access to the data, youll need to submit a project proposal or join an existing project within 3 months. We review your community application up to 10 working day Your institution confirms your affiliation timeline determined by your institution You complete information governance training online, 30-60 minute Access to the Research Environment granted up to 2 working day after passing information governance training Funding We strongly encourage researcher to contact u when considering fellowship or grant applications. We can provide you with a letter of support for your application. Grant application that we have supported have nearly double the success ratio compared to industry standards. Get in touch If you have any question or you need support with your ongoing application please email us. Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships Genomic Healthcare About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Genomics England Powering genomic medicine, together We partner with the NHS to provide whole genome sequencing diagnostics. We also equip researcher to find the cause of disease and develop new treatment with patient and participant at the heart of it all. Our focus Helping the NHS embed genomics into routine healthcare We provide diagnostics and technology to enhance genomic healthcare and streamline patient care in the NHS. Enabling scientific research via our large genomic database Our secure Research Environment equips approved researcher to make discovery that enhance participants' lives. Helping improve diagnosis and treatment for patient Patients sit at the heart of everything we do at Genomics England improving their life is what our life revolve around. Current initiative Exploring the benefit and challenge of analysing whole genome in newborns. Learn more Integrating long-read sequencing and multimodal data into cancer analysis. Learn more Examining healthcare inequality to bring genomic healthcare benefit to all. Learn more Our flagship project which changed the face of genomic healthcare in the UK. Learn more Partnering with GenOMICC, we analysed the genome of those affected by COVID-19. Learn more Latest News Events 14 May 2024 Podcasts Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Governance Governance Turning science into healthcare Genomics England aim to help everyone benefit from genomic healthcare. Select team Access Review Committee Leadership Team Board Participant Panel Science Advisory Committee Ethics Advisory Committee Access Review Committee Research Network Committee Research Network Community Leads Leadership Team The Executive Leadership Team work alongside the Board of Directors to set and influence our strategic direction, while providing leadership both within the organisation and externally, a ambassador and thought leaders. Dr Richard Scott Chief Executive Officer Dr Ellen Thomas Interim Chief Medical Officer Professor Matt Brown Chief Scientific Officer Catherine Byers Chief Financial and Performance Officer Jackie Kinsey Chief People Officer Nick Maltby General Counsel, Company Secretary and Data Protection Officer Rakhi Rajani Chief Digital and Strategy Officer Dr Augusto Rendon Chief Bioinformatician Pete Sinden Chief Information Officer Chris Schonewald Chief of Staff and Director of Strategy Board The Genomics England Board oversees all of our activities, ratifies all major decision and set the overall strategy for the organisation. Genomics England ha several independent advisory committee that report to the board. These include the Ethics Advisory Committee, Science Advisory Committee, Data Advisory Committee, Access Review Committee, GeCIP Board and the Audit Committee. Dr Richard Scott Chief Executive Officer Baroness Nicola Blackwood Chair Dr Vikram Bajaj Non-Executive Director Professor Sir John Bell Non-Executive Director, Chair of Scientific Advisory Committee Professor Ewan Birney Non-Executive Director Professor Matt Brown Chief Scientific Officer Roz Campion Director, Office for Life Sciences Dr Annalisa Jenkins Non-Executive Director Nicola Perrin MBE Non-Executive Director Dr Keith Stewart Non-Executive Director Sir Jonathan Symonds CBE Non-Executive Director Participant Panel The Participant Panel sits at the heart of Genomics England and is made up of participant from the 100,000 Genomes Project, and parent or carers of people involved in this project. It is expanding to include patient and relative from the GenOMICC COVID-19 study and NHS patient who give consent for their whole genome sequence and associated health data to be used for research in the Genomics England National Genomic Research Library. The Panel act a an advisory body to the Genomics England Board, working to ensure that the health data held by Genomics England is being looked after with respect and used in the best interest of our participants. Jillian Hastings Ward Chair of the Participant Panel Rebecca Middleton Vice Chair for Rare Conditions Helen White Vice Chair for Cancer Frances Allan Participant Panel member Paul Arvidson Participant Panel member Lisa Beaton Participant Panel member Cecily Berryman Participant Panel member Dr Helen Bulbeck Participant Panel member Dr Latha Chandramouli Participant Panel member Mel Dixon Participant Panel member Alison Fox Participant Panel member Clarissa Hopkins Participant Panel member Hannah Humphrey Participant Panel member Ismael Kherroubi Garca Participant Panel member Anthony Locke Participant Panel member Dave McCormick Participant Panel member Helen Mendis Participant Panel member Hannah Podd Participant Panel Member Shelley Simmonds Participant Panel member Dominique Stephens Participant Panel member Emma Walters Participant Panel member Science Advisory Committee Our independent Science Advisory Committee advises the Genomics England Board on scientific aspect of the company's projects. This includes overseeing: disease inclusion criteria; Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GeCIP) domain formation; data access request applications; and patient recruitment strategies. The Committee considers the interest of patients, the public, scientist and clinician engaged in genomic research or genomic medicine. Professor Sir John Bell Non-Executive Director, Chair of Scientific Advisory Committee Professor Tim Aitman University of Edinburgh James Brenton Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute Professor Sir John Burn Newcastle University Professor Patrick Chinnery University of Cambridge David Church Andrew Fry Professor Dame Sue Hill NHS England Professor Matthew Hurles Wellcome Sanger Institute Professor Mark Lawler HDR UK Professor David Lomas Deputy Chair, Scientific Advisory Committee Professor Anna Schuh University of Oxford Professor Matt Seymour University of Leeds Dr Samra Turajlic Cancer Research UK Professor Andrew Wilkie University of Oxford Ethics Advisory Committee Our independent Ethics Advisory Committee identifies, defines, examines and responds to ethical issue in the 100,000 Genomes Project. They also help to ensure the Project is delivered in the interest of the public and of participants. They provide timely advice, guidance, review and recommendation on ethical issues, a requested by the Board. Dr Latha Chandramouli Participant Panel member Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery Chair of the Ethics Advisory Committee Francis Crawley Executive Director, Good Clinical Practice Alliance Professor Angus Clarke Cardiff University Anne Croudass Cancer Research UK Professor Adam Hedgecoe Professor of Social Science, Cardiff University Associate Professor Ruth Horn Associate Professor in Ethics, Ethox Hannah Humphrey Participant Panel member Ismael Kherroubi Garca Participant Panel member Dr Mavis Machirori Senior Researcher, Ada Lovelace Institute Dr Pete Mills Executive Director at the PHG Foundation Nicola Perrin MBE Non-Executive Director Dr Nadeem Qureshi University of Nottingham Professor Rameen Shakur Professor of Genomics and Precision Cardiovascular Medicine Nechama Wieder PhD Candidate in Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford Access Review Committee The Access Review Committees (ARC) role is toprovide an independent examinationandresponseto request for accesstogenomic and healthdataheldin theGenomics EnglandNational Genomic Research Library.These request come fromacademicresearchers, clinicians, and commercialresearchers. There is a set application process for theseindividualsto go through to access the data. The ARC review these applicationstocheckthatthey are in line with the aim of theNational GenomicResearch LibraryProtocoland toassess whetherthey arein the interest of both the public and the participants. Dr Christine Patch Chair of the Access Review Committee Natasha Dunkley Head of Digital Strategy, Welsh Government Jillian Hastings Ward Chair of the Participant Panel Helen White Vice Chair for Cancer Clarissa Hopkins Participant Panel member Hannah Podd Participant Panel Member Dr Simon Stockley General Practitioner Dr Shereen Tadros Consultant in Clinical Genetics, GOSH Danielle Wilson Centre and Research Commercialisation Manager, Imperial College Research Network Committee The Research Network Committee oversees the operation of the Research Network and includes a range of representative from across the Research Network communities. Three place on the Research Network Committee are reserved for the representative of the Participant Panel and they contribute and vote a any other member of the Research Network Committee. The individual Participant Panel representative are free to rotate attendance at the Research Network Committee according to their availability. Professor Eamonn Sheridan Chair of the Research Network Committee Dr Helen Bulbeck Participant Panel member Professor Dame Sue Hill NHS England Dave McCormick Participant Panel member Helen Mendis Participant Panel member Professor John Sayer Deputy Chair and Research representative Dr Nicky Whiffin Quantitative Genomics representative Dr Catherine Taylor Clinical representative Dr Letizia Vestito Early Career Researcher representative Professor Claude Chelala Data Science representative Dr William Macken Early Career Researcher representative Research Network Community Leads Our Research Network Community Leads spearhead, represent and advise the 8 cross-functional community that make up our Research Network. Championing their respective community interests, the lead engage with Genomics England to identify strategic research and funding opportunities. The Community Leads drive collaborations, skill-sharing and meaningful interaction between member of their communities, streamlining the way genomic research is carried out. Professor Richard Houlston Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology lead Professor Anna Schuh Pan-Cancer and Molecular Oncology co-lead Professor Elijah Behr Predisposition and Screening lead Professor Sanjay Sisodiya Predisposition and Screening co-lead Professor Sophie Hambleton Variant Discovery and Clinical Interpretation lead Professor Caroline Wright Variant Discovery and Clinical Interpretation co-lead Professor Christopher Yau Bioinformatics and Machine Learning lead Dr David Morris Bioinformatics and machine learning co-lead Professor Daniel Gale Therapeutic Innovations and Trials lead Dr Haiyan Zhou Therapeutic Innovations and Trials co-lead Dr Aylwyn Scally Population Genomics lead Professor Jean-Baptiste Cazier Population Genomics co-lead Professor Amy Jayne McKnight Implementation and Data Enhancement lead Professor Diana Baralle Genotype-Phenotype Association lead Dr Gavin Arno Genotype-Phenotype Association co-lead Scroll to top Explore Genomics England About u About u News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... How your data is used How your data is used How your data is used None of our work would be possible without the consent and support of patient and participant they are at the heart of everything that we do. By enabling scientist and clinician in their research, a patient data go from being an isolated dot to a key part of the picture. Your data in the National Genomic Research Library The data we collect is stored in the National Genomic Research Library, a platform built by u and NHS England that allows approved researcher to access samples, genomic data, and other associated health data via a secure . Researchers who use the Research Environment can learn more about everyones health by looking for pattern in the de-identified data of thousand of participants. Being able to compare all patient data in one place provides researcher with an opportunity to better understand diseases, develop new treatment and can lead to new diagnoses. All data in the National Genomic Research Library ha been de-identified and cannot be extracted by researchers. What kind of data is stored in the National Genomic Research Library? Types of de-identified data that are collected: Your medical test result Electronic copy of your health record from the NHS, your GP and other organisation (such a NHS Digital and Public Health England) Information about any illness or stay in hospital including your primary diagnosis and any historic diagnosis going back a far a medical record allow Copies of hospital or clinic records, medical notes, social care, and local or national disease registry Relevant imaging data from your NHS records, such a MRI scans, X-rays or pathology image A lifetime resource Your record will continue to be updated throughout your lifetime, for a long a you give u permission to. This lifelong health data may allow development of better treatment or diagnostics for others. Why do we gather clinical data a well a your genome sequence? To take a deeper approach to genomic research, we need a much detail a possible about a participant medical condition and symptoms. Even small difference in symptom between individual might be crucial in understanding what change in a genome mean, and helping decide the best treatments. Only by understanding your detailed clinical data are we able to understand how pattern in your genome affect your diagnosis. What will the data be used for? Finding treatment Helping to find new treatment and possibly cure for a wide range of health conditions. Improving analysis Researchers might use the data to try and find new, faster way to analyse large amount of data. Sharing knowledge Researchers may share their finding with other scientist and doctor through publication or meeting to help research advance a quickly a possible. Developing drug and diagnostic test New drug and diagnostic test may be developed by the NHS, university and company across the world. Suggesting clinical trial or relevant research Researchers will be able to find opportunity for you, and others like you, to take part in relevant research project or clinical trials. Keeping your data safe De-identifying data in the National Genomic Research Library Maintaining your data security and protecting your privacy is our top priority To maintain your privacy, information that could identify you like name, date of birth, and all other personal detail is removed from your health record and genomic data. This process of de-identifying data ensures that researcher have no way of identifying individual participant while using the Research Environment. Keeping your data safe How is data stored and secured? Genome data is enormous, and we use a cloud service from Amazon Web Services (AWS) based in the UK to provide a secure cloud computing and storage infrastructure. All patient data is held in secure facility based in the UK. All of the data from the National Genomic Research Library stay within the secure, monitored Research Environment where it can be analysed by researchers. In this way, Genomics England considers the National Genomic Research Library to be a reading library not a lending library. How we protect your data: Continuously review latest best practice for secure storage Use industry-standard tool and technique to prevent unauthorised access Regularly undertake security test Meet all law and standard for data protection Closely monitor all activity on the secure Research Environment Who ha access to the data? Anyone with access to the de-identified data in the National Genomic Research Library must be approved by the and Genomics England. Researchers Approved researcher may work for not-for-profit organisations, such a universities, hospitals, or research charities, and for-profit (commercial) company such a pharma, biotech or diagnostic company from around the world who will work with de-identified data to better understand disease and develop diagnostics and treatments. Clinicians and healthcare staff Doctors, nurse and other healthcare professional in the NHS have access to information about the patient they are caring for. This is to enable clinical staff to see any result or finding from whole genome sequencing for patient in their care. Service provider Approved organisation who provide the data itself, IT support, computing infrastructure, data storage, genome analysis, or other technical services. Each company only ha access to the part of the data centre they are working on or supporting, and all individual have undergone Information Governance training and signed confidentiality agreements. Keeping your data safe Approval process for all researcher Also known a our 'airlock' system 1 Researchers submit an application requesting access to our secure research environment. 2 Applications are reviewed by an independent Access Review Committee, overseen by u and NHS England. 3 Researchers have their identity checked and confirmed. 4 The researcher organisation is required to sign legal documentation. 5 Only when approved are researcher given secure access to the National Genomic Research Library. 6 All research activity is continually monitored by Genomics England. The data will never be used for insurance or marketing purposes, nor for speculative searches, such a check of DNA profile or other information derived from your sample. The Department of Health and Social Care ha had confirmation from the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers that they will not seek access to Genomics Englands data without presentation of a court order. For further detail of unacceptable uses, please see the list a detailed in the Research Ethics Committee approved Protocol. FAQs Data source Data source 1. Where do you gather health data from? We get data from many places. The main one are: These come from all NHS trust in England, including acute hospitals, primary care trust and mental health trusts. This data is collected during a patient time at hospital. It includes detail of diagnosis, treatment received and other detail about the patient. HES information is stored a a large collection of separate record one for each period of care.Patient Report Outcome Measure Data (PROMs): This data measure health gain typically in patient undergoing hip or knee replacement but is also used to measure a patient health or health-related quality of life at a single point in time. This dataset let u see whether there is any relationship between a gene variant and how well patient do after treatment or surgery.Mental Health and Learning Disability Set (MHLDS): This is used to analyse patient pathway and enable a deep understanding of mental health service user interaction with acute secondary care. For the project it is a particularly important data set a many participant with rare condition have learning disabilities. But it also help u see whether mental health problem such a depression are an unrecognised symptom of a genetic variant.: a central collection of detailed information held by NHS Digital about diagnostic imaging test carried out on patients, such a XRays and MRI scans. This data can provide insight into whether particular gene variant are associated with a particular tumour or condition.: Cause of death is a crucial piece of information. If a patient dy of a different illness, or in an accident, we need to record this a otherwise it will skew the data. And if people die earlier, or live longer than expected it will help u pick out the variant associated with this. Having mortality data will also reveal if people with one condition die disproportionately from another, such a heart attacks. Approval to link to this data with Office of National Statistic Data (which record deaths) must be granted by both NHS Digital and the ONS. Participants in the 100,000 Genomes Project cancer programme give their explicit consent to allow their patient record to be linked to the data collected by the National Cancer Registration Service in Public Health England. More information on the data collected by the National Cancer Registration Service and how it is used is available at . 2. Are you gathering data from new sources? Genomics England is constantly working to identify new source of health data to include which is important for research. Where possible and appropriate, Genomics England will look to obtain and make available data from other research study so that your data can be compared against more people. Data for research 1. What type of research and for what purpose will user want to access the data? Genomics England ha established the . Researchers who are approved to become a member of GECIP will work in domain dependent on their expertise, for example cardiology, breast cancer, neurology, paediatrics or analytics. Because very little is still known about the human genome, bringing together researcher to examine and interpret the data will mean that our knowledge about disease and how it could be treated will be vastly improved. 2. How will user access the data for research purposes? Research user will have restricted, remote access to de-identified datasets which contain only the information they need for their specific and approved research study. 3. Will research user be able to take data away? Research user will be able to download the anonymised result of their analysis, provided that these result do not reveal the identity of any of the participants. The Information Commissioners Office ha a , and this give an indication of what will, and will not be, allowed. The data system that Genomics England have in place will not allow user to cut and paste data into their own systems. Clinicians will be able to download the clinical report on participant in their care. Data for clinician 1. How do clinician receive information on their patients? Clinicians will receive feedback on participant in their care in a downloadable clinical report. 2. Will the clinical report change a our understanding and knowledge of disease improves over time? Yes. Genomics England expects that a new research reveals new information of relevance to a participant medical condition, then a new clinical report which capture this additional information will be issued to their clinician. The National Genomic Research Library brings together lot of data from different sources, so Genomics England will always make your data available to the NHS if they need it for your clinical care. 3. What information will the clinical report contain? Clinical report are different for rare disease patient and for cancer patients. For rare disease patient and their family member who are also taking part, their report will be divided into three tier of results. The first tier includes finding that, with current knowledge and in line with NHS standard practice, could be fed back to the participant after being validated and signed off by their NHS Genomic Medicine Centre. These finding are limited to variant in set of gene that when disrupted are known to cause the clinical condition under consideration. These are called virtual gene panel and are specific to the disease being investigated. Tier two provides a larger list of variant in that same gene panel that can be helpful in gaining a more complete picture of the genetic basis of the participant clinical condition under consideration. Tier three is more explorative and is not limited to virtual gene panel but look at the whole genome, all of the participant health data and their family history. In some instances, information generated from this tier will highlight finding that were missed when the first two tier were looked at and could lead to a new or more precise diagnosis for the participant. This section of the report will also include result on additional finding if participant have consented to those being looked for. This tier is where new research advance are likely to be made. Reports for cancer patient will mainly be in three section with information gleaned from the whole genome sequencing data: a high level description of the tumour genome and the most obvious way it differs from the patient normal genomegenetic change in the tumour which are not present in the patient normal DNA in gene known to be involved in causing cancerchanges in the normal DNA, in known cancer genes, that can make patient susceptible to the cancer that is being investigated.As the Project evolves and in consultation with stakeholders, Genomics England will provide additional information that may help in the prognosis or management of the patient condition. Data access 1. How will hacker be prevented from gaining access? Genomics England is using industry-standard tool and technique to prevent unauthorised access. Patient data travel from the NHS Genomic Medicine Centres to the Genomics England data centre over the dedicated NHS N3 network. Like any organisation, we are subject to attempt to probe our system from outside and we regularly test to ensure that none succeed. We have no evidence of being targeted specifically. 2. What literature will user have to sign before accessing the data? All research user must sign an electronic data access agreement and submit this to Genomics Englands independent Access Review Committee along with their research application for approval. Only when their research study ha been approved will they be granted remote access to only those de-identified datasets they need for their specific and approved research study. Clinicians will not have to sign a data access agreement a by the very nature of their profession they will already have to abide by certain professional standard and adhere to their Trusts data governance policy when dealing with a patient data. Failure to do so would be in breach of their term of employment resulting in appropriate action being taken. 3. Is there a charge for access? NHS clinician will have access to data on patient in their care free of charge. Academic researcher participating in Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership will also have access to de-identified data free of charge, subject to their research study being approved. Genomics England is charging industry to participate in the because providing storage, security and analytic service for the data is costly and it is only right that for profit company accessing the data for research purpose should contribute to these costs. 4. Will my personal data be passed to other government agency or the police? If so, what are the protection that are in place? No data held by Genomics England will be accessible to other government agency which includes HMRC and the Child Support Agency. In the unusual situation that a request for data is made by a court order then this will be referred to Genomics Englands Legal Counsel a promptly a possible so that all representation may be made to the court, for example, to limit the information requested being released. The Department of Health ha had confirmation from the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers that they will not seek access to Genomics England s data. 5. Will having my genome sequenced affect my life insurance? Most of the time taking part in research project wont affect insurance premiums. You dont normally have to tell insurer that you are taking part in research, or about genetic test results. However, when applying for insurance you do have to disclose any symptom you experience or any diagnoses, screening, or treatment you receive, if this information is requested on the application form. Data security 1. Is identifiable data held separately and more securely? Direct identifiers, such a name and date of birth, will be held in a separate part of the data infrastructure. This part of the data infrastructure will be more secure, in the sense that it will not be accessible to researchers; nor, indeed, will it be accessible to the majority of Genomics England staff. Given the sensitive nature of the health and genome data, similar expectation of security apply across the whole of the data infrastructure. In the rare case where Genomics England staff need access to identifiable data, access will only be granted following explicit approval from Genomics Englands Senior Information Risk Owner (SIRO). Access to identifiable data will be strictly limited and protected. All action can be audited and monitored. 2. What sanction and penalty are in place for misappropriate use of the data? Maintaining data security and protecting the privacy of participant is of the upmost importance to Genomics England. Any researcher who attempt to re-identify data (and thus identify a participant) run a significant risk of detection. Genomics England ha penalty in place for any organisation or individual who breach or attempt to breach a participant identity confidentiality. Penalties for misappropriate use include revocation of user access, withdrawal of access for the organisation the offending user is employed or contracted to, and the reporting of the offending activity to the Information Commissioner which could result in a fine of up to 500,000 or even imprisonment under section 55 of the Data Protection Act. 3. What is the difference between anonymised and pseudonymised data? The Information Commissioner (ICO) defines anonymisation a the process of turning data into a form which doe not identify individual and where identification is not likely to take place. The ICO also ha a . There is no standard definition for pseudonymised, and the two word are often used to mean the same thing. There is one, key, technical difference, in that anonymised can be used to refer to aggregate data, or results, whereas pseudonymised can only refer to individual-level data, but this doe not mean that pseudonymised data is easier to identify it depends upon the data, and the context. For Genomics England, only anonymised data can be exported from the secure environment: this may be aggregate, result data, or other data from which so much information ha been removed that it is highly unlikely that it could be re-associated with individual participants. Within the secure data system, the data available to researcher is de-identified in the sense that personal identifier have been removed, together with any other information that is not needed for their specific, approved research purposes. More than this, a fresh, unique reference may be generated for each research purpose, so that researcher are not able to collect information about individual across research studies. Data source Data for research Data for clinician Data access Data security Data source 1. Where do you gather health data from? We get data from many places. The main one are: These come from all NHS trust in England, including acute hospitals, primary care trust and mental health trusts. This data is collected during a patient time at hospital. It includes detail of diagnosis, treatment received and other detail about the patient. HES information is stored a a large collection of separate record one for each period of care.Patient Report Outcome Measure Data (PROMs): This data measure health gain typically in patient undergoing hip or knee replacement but is also used to measure a patient health or health-related quality of life at a single point in time. This dataset let u see whether there is any relationship between a gene variant and how well patient do after treatment or surgery.Mental Health and Learning Disability Set (MHLDS): This is used to analyse patient pathway and enable a deep understanding of mental health service user interaction with acute secondary care. For the project it is a particularly important data set a many participant with rare condition have learning disabilities. But it also help u see whether mental health problem such a depression are an unrecognised symptom of a genetic variant.: a central collection of detailed information held by NHS Digital about diagnostic imaging test carried out on patients, such a XRays and MRI scans. This data can provide insight into whether particular gene variant are associated with a particular tumour or condition.: Cause of death is a crucial piece of information. If a patient dy of a different illness, or in an accident, we need to record this a otherwise it will skew the data. And if people die earlier, or live longer than expected it will help u pick out the variant associated with this. Having mortality data will also reveal if people with one condition die disproportionately from another, such a heart attacks. Approval to link to this data with Office of National Statistic Data (which record deaths) must be granted by both NHS Digital and the ONS. Participants in the 100,000 Genomes Project cancer programme give their explicit consent to allow their patient record to be linked to the data collected by the National Cancer Registration Service in Public Health England. More information on the data collected by the National Cancer Registration Service and how it is used is available at . 2. Are you gathering data from new sources? Genomics England is constantly working to identify new source of health data to include which is important for research. Where possible and appropriate, Genomics England will look to obtain and make available data from other research study so that your data can be compared against more people. 1. What type of research and for what purpose will user want to access the data? Genomics England ha established the . Researchers who are approved to become a member of GECIP will work in domain dependent on their expertise, for example cardiology, breast cancer, neurology, paediatrics or analytics. Because very little is still known about the human genome, bringing together researcher to examine and interpret the data will mean that our knowledge about disease and how it could be treated will be vastly improved. 2. How will user access the data for research purposes? Research user will have restricted, remote access to de-identified datasets which contain only the information they need for their specific and approved research study. 3. Will research user be able to take data away? Research user will be able to download the anonymised result of their analysis, provided that these result do not reveal the identity of any of the participants. The Information Commissioners Office ha a , and this give an indication of what will, and will not be, allowed. The data system that Genomics England have in place will not allow user to cut and paste data into their own systems. Clinicians will be able to download the clinical report on participant in their care. 1. How do clinician receive information on their patients? Clinicians will receive feedback on participant in their care in a downloadable clinical report. 2. Will the clinical report change a our understanding and knowledge of disease improves over time? Yes. Genomics England expects that a new research reveals new information of relevance to a participant medical condition, then a new clinical report which capture this additional information will be issued to their clinician. The National Genomic Research Library brings together lot of data from different sources, so Genomics England will always make your data available to the NHS if they need it for your clinical care. 3. What information will the clinical report contain? Clinical report are different for rare disease patient and for cancer patients. For rare disease patient and their family member who are also taking part, their report will be divided into three tier of results. The first tier includes finding that, with current knowledge and in line with NHS standard practice, could be fed back to the participant after being validated and signed off by their NHS Genomic Medicine Centre. These finding are limited to variant in set of gene that when disrupted are known to cause the clinical condition under consideration. These are called virtual gene panel and are specific to the disease being investigated. Tier two provides a larger list of variant in that same gene panel that can be helpful in gaining a more complete picture of the genetic basis of the participant clinical condition under consideration. Tier three is more explorative and is not limited to virtual gene panel but look at the whole genome, all of the participant health data and their family history. In some instances, information generated from this tier will highlight finding that were missed when the first two tier were looked at and could lead to a new or more precise diagnosis for the participant. This section of the report will also include result on additional finding if participant have consented to those being looked for. This tier is where new research advance are likely to be made. Reports for cancer patient will mainly be in three section with information gleaned from the whole genome sequencing data: a high level description of the tumour genome and the most obvious way it differs from the patient normal genomegenetic change in the tumour which are not present in the patient normal DNA in gene known to be involved in causing cancerchanges in the normal DNA, in known cancer genes, that can make patient susceptible to the cancer that is being investigated.As the Project evolves and in consultation with stakeholders, Genomics England will provide additional information that may help in the prognosis or management of the patient condition. 1. How will hacker be prevented from gaining access? Genomics England is using industry-standard tool and technique to prevent unauthorised access. Patient data travel from the NHS Genomic Medicine Centres to the Genomics England data centre over the dedicated NHS N3 network. Like any organisation, we are subject to attempt to probe our system from outside and we regularly test to ensure that none succeed. We have no evidence of being targeted specifically. 2. What literature will user have to sign before accessing the data? All research user must sign an electronic data access agreement and submit this to Genomics Englands independent Access Review Committee along with their research application for approval. Only when their research study ha been approved will they be granted remote access to only those de-identified datasets they need for their specific and approved research study. Clinicians will not have to sign a data access agreement a by the very nature of their profession they will already have to abide by certain professional standard and adhere to their Trusts data governance policy when dealing with a patient data. Failure to do so would be in breach of their term of employment resulting in appropriate action being taken. 3. Is there a charge for access? NHS clinician will have access to data on patient in their care free of charge. Academic researcher participating in Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership will also have access to de-identified data free of charge, subject to their research study being approved. Genomics England is charging industry to participate in the because providing storage, security and analytic service for the data is costly and it is only right that for profit company accessing the data for research purpose should contribute to these costs. 4. Will my personal data be passed to other government agency or the police? If so, what are the protection that are in place? No data held by Genomics England will be accessible to other government agency which includes HMRC and the Child Support Agency. In the unusual situation that a request for data is made by a court order then this will be referred to Genomics Englands Legal Counsel a promptly a possible so that all representation may be made to the court, for example, to limit the information requested being released. The Department of Health ha had confirmation from the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers that they will not seek access to Genomics England s data. 5. Will having my genome sequenced affect my life insurance? Most of the time taking part in research project wont affect insurance premiums. You dont normally have to tell insurer that you are taking part in research, or about genetic test results. However, when applying for insurance you do have to disclose any symptom you experience or any diagnoses, screening, or treatment you receive, if this information is requested on the application form. 1. Is identifiable data held separately and more securely? Direct identifiers, such a name and date of birth, will be held in a separate part of the data infrastructure. This part of the data infrastructure will be more secure, in the sense that it will not be accessible to researchers; nor, indeed, will it be accessible to the majority of Genomics England staff. Given the sensitive nature of the health and genome data, similar expectation of security apply across the whole of the data infrastructure. In the rare case where Genomics England staff need access to identifiable data, access will only be granted following explicit approval from Genomics Englands Senior Information Risk Owner (SIRO). Access to identifiable data will be strictly limited and protected. All action can be audited and monitored. 2. What sanction and penalty are in place for misappropriate use of the data? Maintaining data security and protecting the privacy of participant is of the upmost importance to Genomics England. Any researcher who attempt to re-identify data (and thus identify a participant) run a significant risk of detection. Genomics England ha penalty in place for any organisation or individual who breach or attempt to breach a participant identity confidentiality. Penalties for misappropriate use include revocation of user access, withdrawal of access for the organisation the offending user is employed or contracted to, and the reporting of the offending activity to the Information Commissioner which could result in a fine of up to 500,000 or even imprisonment under section 55 of the Data Protection Act. 3. What is the difference between anonymised and pseudonymised data? The Information Commissioner (ICO) defines anonymisation a the process of turning data into a form which doe not identify individual and where identification is not likely to take place. The ICO also ha a . There is no standard definition for pseudonymised, and the two word are often used to mean the same thing. There is one, key, technical difference, in that anonymised can be used to refer to aggregate data, or results, whereas pseudonymised can only refer to individual-level data, but this doe not mean that pseudonymised data is easier to identify it depends upon the data, and the context. For Genomics England, only anonymised data can be exported from the secure environment: this may be aggregate, result data, or other data from which so much information ha been removed that it is highly unlikely that it could be re-associated with individual participants. Within the secure data system, the data available to researcher is de-identified in the sense that personal identifier have been removed, together with any other information that is not needed for their specific, approved research purposes. More than this, a fresh, unique reference may be generated for each research purpose, so that researcher are not able to collect information about individual across research studies. Questions about the National Genomic Research Library? If you would like to make a data request, please . To contact u about the National Genomic Research Library, please get in touch on 0808 2819 535 or by email using the link below (it will open in your email application). Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... Research project Research project Join the Genomics England Research Network Join a global network of academics, clinicians, and student using one of the world's largest genomic datasets. Already a member? Research project by domain Select from the domain and explore our active research projects. Type here to search Order Order Project Newest - Oldest Project Oldest - Newest Project Title A - Z Project Title Z - A Project Lead A - Z Project Lead Z - A Apply Project Title Project Lead Project Date Research project A comprehensive catalog of somatic mutation and structural variation in lung cancer and correlation with main clinical characteristic Project Lead Shicheng Guo Project Date 23/02/2023 Lay Summary Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and a better understanding of the genetic change that drive it progression is crucial for improving patient outcomes. The aim of this research plan is to study the frequency and association of lung cancer mutation and structural variation with clinical information, metastasis, drug response, and survival in the lung cancer patient cohort from the 100,000 Genomes Project. Whole Genome Sequences would provide more insight on non-coding region of DNA, a compared with other source of genomic data from cancer patient (e.g. TCGA and TARGET). Non-coding region of DNA, which make up the majority of the human genome, play important role in gene regulation, chromatin structure, and other biological processes. Mutations or structural variation in non-coding region can affect gene expression and contribute to the development and progression of cancer. Therefore, studying non-coding region of DNA can provide valuable insight into the molecular mechanism of cancer. In this study, Dr. Shicheng Guo, Dr. Christopher Moy, Dr. Joel Greshock, Dr. Ramzi Temmani and Dr. Tommaso Mansi will provide a comprehensive understanding of the genetic change that drive lung cancer progression and contribute to it resistance to current therapies. The identification of biomarkers of drug response and survival will support clinical trial development and facilitate the development of personalized medicine approach and improve patient outcome and benefit lung cancer patient. Overall, the research plan ha the potential to improve the diagnosis, treatment, and outcome for patient with lung cancer. By contributing to a better understanding of the molecular basis of the disease, your research can help advance precision medicine and improve the quality of care for patients. See more A comprehensive catalog of somatic mutation and structural variation in lung cancer and correlation with main clinical characteristic Shicheng Guo 23/02/2023 Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and a better understanding of the genetic change that drive it progression is crucial for improving patient outcomes. The aim of this research plan is to study the frequency and association of lung cancer mutation and structural variation with clinical information, metastasis, drug response, and survival in the lung cancer patient cohort from the 100,000 Genomes Project. Whole Genome Sequences would provide more insight on non-coding region of DNA, a compared with other source of genomic data from cancer patient (e.g. TCGA and TARGET). Non-coding region of DNA, which make up the majority of the human genome, play important role in gene regulation, chromatin structure, and other biological processes. Mutations or structural variation in non-coding region can affect gene expression and contribute to the development and progression of cancer. Therefore, studying non-coding region of DNA can provide valuable insight into the molecular mechanism of cancer. In this study, Dr. Shicheng Guo, Dr. Christopher Moy, Dr. Joel Greshock, Dr. Ramzi Temmani and Dr. Tommaso Mansi will provide a comprehensive understanding of the genetic change that drive lung cancer progression and contribute to it resistance to current therapies. The identification of biomarkers of drug response and survival will support clinical trial development and facilitate the development of personalized medicine approach and improve patient outcome and benefit lung cancer patient. Overall, the research plan ha the potential to improve the diagnosis, treatment, and outcome for patient with lung cancer. By contributing to a better understanding of the molecular basis of the disease, your research can help advance precision medicine and improve the quality of care for patients. Analysing the difference between inferred ancestry group within breast cancer Project Lead Claude Chelala Project Date 22/02/2023 Lay Summary We investigate ancestry-associated difference in breast cancer with the aim to identify actionable window of opportunity to improve patient safety and outcome.To this end, we will use the Genomics England breast cancer cohort to conduct preliminary analysis and compare the result of this national cohort with our Barts breast cancer cohort (collected from patient within North East London (NEL)) and with independent cohorts. Breast cancer patient from NEL present with disease earlier and with more aggressive cancer than nationwide, with 1-year survival rate for cancer being in the lowest 10% in the country and particularly poor for breast cancer. See more Analysing the difference between inferred ancestry group within breast cancer Claude Chelala 22/02/2023 We investigate ancestry-associated difference in breast cancer with the aim to identify actionable window of opportunity to improve patient safety and outcome.To this end, we will use the Genomics England breast cancer cohort to conduct preliminary analysis and compare the result of this national cohort with our Barts breast cancer cohort (collected from patient within North East London (NEL)) and with independent cohorts. Breast cancer patient from NEL present with disease earlier and with more aggressive cancer than nationwide, with 1-year survival rate for cancer being in the lowest 10% in the country and particularly poor for breast cancer. Validation and Expansion of Synthetic Lethal Cancer Targets Using the Genomics England Dataset Project Lead Shicheng Guo Project Date 22/02/2023 Lay Summary Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide, and the development of effective treatment is of utmost importance. Synthetic lethal-based drug development is a strategy for developing cancer treatment that focus on targeting specific genetic alteration in cancer cell that are not present in normal cells. This approach take advantage of the unique vulnerability of cancer cells, which often have specific genetic change that make them more dependent on certain cellular processes. By targeting these processes, synthetic lethal-based drug can selectively kill cancer cell while leaving normal cell unharmed. However, the most current synthetic lethal target are not fully validated yet, so we aim to do exactly this, validating these target in the population cohort of cancer participant from the 100,000 Genomes Project. In this project, team of Dr. Shicheng Guo, Dr. Christopher Moy, Dr. Tim Schultz, Dr. Kirti Snigdha, Dr. Barbara Weir, Dr. Yu Sun, Dr. Ramzi Temmani, Dr. Tommaso Mansi and Dr. Joel Greshock will be able to improve our understanding of synthetic lethal target and their potential for cancer drug development. By validating the finding in this large human population, we will be able to better evaluate the clinical relevance of synthetic lethal target and expand our knowledge of their potential a cancer treatment . This will inform our drug discovery programme in this field, to ensure we pursue R&D to develop medicine around synthetic lethal target that are confirmed to be relevant for cancer patient in the UK. See more Validation and Expansion of Synthetic Lethal Cancer Targets Using the Genomics England Dataset Shicheng Guo 22/02/2023 Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide, and the development of effective treatment is of utmost importance. Synthetic lethal-based drug development is a strategy for developing cancer treatment that focus on targeting specific genetic alteration in cancer cell that are not present in normal cells. This approach take advantage of the unique vulnerability of cancer cells, which often have specific genetic change that make them more dependent on certain cellular processes. By targeting these processes, synthetic lethal-based drug can selectively kill cancer cell while leaving normal cell unharmed. However, the most current synthetic lethal target are not fully validated yet, so we aim to do exactly this, validating these target in the population cohort of cancer participant from the 100,000 Genomes Project. In this project, team of Dr. Shicheng Guo, Dr. Christopher Moy, Dr. Tim Schultz, Dr. Kirti Snigdha, Dr. Barbara Weir, Dr. Yu Sun, Dr. Ramzi Temmani, Dr. Tommaso Mansi and Dr. Joel Greshock will be able to improve our understanding of synthetic lethal target and their potential for cancer drug development. By validating the finding in this large human population, we will be able to better evaluate the clinical relevance of synthetic lethal target and expand our knowledge of their potential a cancer treatment . This will inform our drug discovery programme in this field, to ensure we pursue R&D to develop medicine around synthetic lethal target that are confirmed to be relevant for cancer patient in the UK. De novo and mendelian inherited causal genetic variation identification for bladder related phenotype Project Lead Sharad Agarwal Project Date 22/02/2023 Lay Summary We aim to explore the genomic sequence of cancer participant from the 100,000 Genomes Project to identify genetic variation that appear to be associated with human phenotypic change and differential drug response. In this project, our team of Dr. Sharad Agarwal, Dr. Shicheng Guo, Dr. Ramzi Temmani, Felipe Golib will apply deep learning and statistical genetics approach to identify bladder related cancer (muscle-invasive bladder cancer & Metastatic Bladder Cancer) associated genomic variation and to understand their role in disease progression a well a drug discovery and development. We will also analyse the cancer cohort of the 100,000 Genomes Project to validate the finding from our previous GWAS study that we conducted within UKBioBank . This study can be used to develop targeted and personalized treatments, leading to improved outcome for patients. The validation of these finding through the participant of the cancer cohort of the 100,000 Genomes Project will further solidify the impact of this research on healthcare. See more De novo and mendelian inherited causal genetic variation identification for bladder related phenotype Sharad Agarwal 22/02/2023 We aim to explore the genomic sequence of cancer participant from the 100,000 Genomes Project to identify genetic variation that appear to be associated with human phenotypic change and differential drug response. In this project, our team of Dr. Sharad Agarwal, Dr. Shicheng Guo, Dr. Ramzi Temmani, Felipe Golib will apply deep learning and statistical genetics approach to identify bladder related cancer (muscle-invasive bladder cancer & Metastatic Bladder Cancer) associated genomic variation and to understand their role in disease progression a well a drug discovery and development. We will also analyse the cancer cohort of the 100,000 Genomes Project to validate the finding from our previous GWAS study that we conducted within UKBioBank . This study can be used to develop targeted and personalized treatments, leading to improved outcome for patients. The validation of these finding through the participant of the cancer cohort of the 100,000 Genomes Project will further solidify the impact of this research on healthcare. Predictive modeling of Brain metastasis in patient diagnosed with Non-small Cell Lung Cancer using clinical-genomic real-world data Project Lead Alvaro Ulloa Project Date 22/02/2023 Lay Summary Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death in the US. Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) represents approximately 84% of all lung cancers. Patients diagnosed with NSCLC and Brain metastasis (BM) have poor prognoses, with median survival ranging between 4 and 6 months. Both early diagnosis and intervention may improve patient outcomes. Amivantamab + Lazertinib is a combination therapy for the treatment of certain type of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Amivantamab is an anti-PD-L1 antibody, a type of immunotherapy, while Lazertinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that target specific genetic mutation found in NSCLC. The combination of these two drug work to block the growth and spread of cancer cells. Janssen is currently assessing the effectiveness of Amivantimab + Lazertinib on advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patient who haven't received any previous treatment and whose tumor harbor select EGFR mutation (exon 19 deletion or L858R) in the MARIPOSA trial whose main goal is to see how long patient can go without their cancer getting worse, which is known a progression-free survival (PFS). Given that the intervention is found to be effective, we hypothesize that prophylactic treatment with Amivantimab + Lazertinib targeting patient with a high risk of developing brain metastasis within 2 year may further improve patient outcomes. This will help oncologist make better decision about treating these patient in the future. To support this trial, we have developed a model using clinical and genomic information from Concert AIs Genome 360 database. In this study, Dr. Alvaro Ulloa, Dr. Amanda Zheutlin, Dr. Yi Zhang, Dr. Kaitlin Hood, Dr. Breno Neri, and Dr. Shicheng Guo plan to analyse the genomic and clinical data from the (Non-small cell lung) cancer participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project to validate the performance estimate for brain metastasis in patient diagnosed with Non-small Cell Lung Cancer using clinical-genomic real-world data. This study will be important to support our clinical trial to prevent brain metastasis from happening in these high-risk patients. See more Predictive modeling of Brain metastasis in patient diagnosed with Non-small Cell Lung Cancer using clinical-genomic real-world data Alvaro Ulloa 22/02/2023 Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death in the US. Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) represents approximately 84% of all lung cancers. Patients diagnosed with NSCLC and Brain metastasis (BM) have poor prognoses, with median survival ranging between 4 and 6 months. Both early diagnosis and intervention may improve patient outcomes. Amivantamab + Lazertinib is a combination therapy for the treatment of certain type of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Amivantamab is an anti-PD-L1 antibody, a type of immunotherapy, while Lazertinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that target specific genetic mutation found in NSCLC. The combination of these two drug work to block the growth and spread of cancer cells. Janssen is currently assessing the effectiveness of Amivantimab + Lazertinib on advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patient who haven't received any previous treatment and whose tumor harbor select EGFR mutation (exon 19 deletion or L858R) in the MARIPOSA trial whose main goal is to see how long patient can go without their cancer getting worse, which is known a progression-free survival (PFS). Given that the intervention is found to be effective, we hypothesize that prophylactic treatment with Amivantimab + Lazertinib targeting patient with a high risk of developing brain metastasis within 2 year may further improve patient outcomes. This will help oncologist make better decision about treating these patient in the future. To support this trial, we have developed a model using clinical and genomic information from Concert AIs Genome 360 database. In this study, Dr. Alvaro Ulloa, Dr. Amanda Zheutlin, Dr. Yi Zhang, Dr. Kaitlin Hood, Dr. Breno Neri, and Dr. Shicheng Guo plan to analyse the genomic and clinical data from the (Non-small cell lung) cancer participant in the 100,000 Genomes Project to validate the performance estimate for brain metastasis in patient diagnosed with Non-small Cell Lung Cancer using clinical-genomic real-world data. This study will be important to support our clinical trial to prevent brain metastasis from happening in these high-risk patients. Characterisation of the contribution of genetics in influencing cancer outcome and treatment response Project Lead Athena Matakidou Project Date 21/02/2023 Lay Summary Cancer is a disease that show great variability in how patient respond to therapy and their overall prognosis (survival). This variability is not limited to different cancer type but is also seen within patient with the same diagnosis, with few clinically relevant biomarkers currently available to guide treatment choices. This project aim to explore how genetic variation, both inherited (germline) or acquired (cancer/somatic) impact response to commonly used anti-cancer therapy and patient outcomes, by analysing the clinical and genetic data of cancer participant in the 100,000 Genomes Programme , found in the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL). The result may help identify novel biomarkers of treatment response a well provide insight into gene and pathway for the development of novel anti-cancer therapies. See more Characterisation of the contribution of genetics in influencing cancer outcome and treatment response Athena Matakidou 21/02/2023 Cancer is a disease that show great variability in how patient respond to therapy and their overall prognosis (survival). This variability is not limited to different cancer type but is also seen within patient with the same diagnosis, with few clinically relevant biomarkers currently available to guide treatment choices. This project aim to explore how genetic variation, both inherited (germline) or acquired (cancer/somatic) impact response to commonly used anti-cancer therapy and patient outcomes, by analysing the clinical and genetic data of cancer participant in the 100,000 Genomes Programme , found in the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL). The result may help identify novel biomarkers of treatment response a well provide insight into gene and pathway for the development of novel anti-cancer therapies. Assessing the public health impact of endogenous viral element in the human population Project Lead Gkikas Magiorkinis Project Date 19/02/2023 Lay Summary Deep analysis of whole genome sequencing (WGS) data ha become a major asset in characterizing mobile genetic element in humans. Yet, one large order of these element the endogenous viral element (EVEs)- are integration of partial or full-length viral genomic material into the host genome. These insertion are vertically inherited and can confer an advantageous or deleterious phenotype in humans. Thus, it is of critical importance to identify those viral genetic imprint and investigate their biological functions. In this project, we aim to deeply analyze a massive volume of human genome data in order to identify and characterize novel viral integrations. Through sophisticated bioinformatic algorithms, the project will catalogue novel polymorphic EVEs integrations, estimate their frequency in the human population and ass their public health impact. See more Assessing the public health impact of endogenous viral element in the human population Gkikas Magiorkinis 19/02/2023 Deep analysis of whole genome sequencing (WGS) data ha become a major asset in characterizing mobile genetic element in humans. Yet, one large order of these element the endogenous viral element (EVEs)- are integration of partial or full-length viral genomic material into the host genome. These insertion are vertically inherited and can confer an advantageous or deleterious phenotype in humans. Thus, it is of critical importance to identify those viral genetic imprint and investigate their biological functions. In this project, we aim to deeply analyze a massive volume of human genome data in order to identify and characterize novel viral integrations. Through sophisticated bioinformatic algorithms, the project will catalogue novel polymorphic EVEs integrations, estimate their frequency in the human population and ass their public health impact. Exploring the role of rare non-coding variation in breast cancer risk Project Lead Douglas Easton Project Date 16/02/2023 Lay Summary The risk of cancer, including breast cancer, can be influenced by inherited genetic changes. The human genome is made up of genes, which code for proteins, and other non-coding DNA that doe not code for proteins. The non-coding DNA can still serve important functional roles, such a regulating nearby genes. While the role of alteration in gene (such a BRCA1) in determining the risk of cancer, ha been well studied, the role of the non-coding genome, particularly rare genetic changes, is much le understood. The role of this project is to investigate the role of rare alteration in non-coding DNA in determining breast cancer risk. See more Exploring the role of rare non-coding variation in breast cancer risk Douglas Easton 16/02/2023 The risk of cancer, including breast cancer, can be influenced by inherited genetic changes. The human genome is made up of genes, which code for proteins, and other non-coding DNA that doe not code for proteins. The non-coding DNA can still serve important functional roles, such a regulating nearby genes. While the role of alteration in gene (such a BRCA1) in determining the risk of cancer, ha been well studied, the role of the non-coding genome, particularly rare genetic changes, is much le understood. The role of this project is to investigate the role of rare alteration in non-coding DNA in determining breast cancer risk. Characterisation of the pan-cancer epigenomic mutational landscape Project Lead Simon Furney Project Date 10/02/2023 Lay Summary Within cells, DNA is organised and packaged by protein complex known a chromatin. Certain family of gene are responsible for controlling this packaging of DNA in chromatin. This allows gene to be expressed and translated into proteins, or repressed so that the gene are not expressed at the wrong time or in the wrong cell type. However, many of these gene that control these process are mutated in cancer leading to abnormal chromatin (epigenomic) states. This in turn lead to abnormal expression or repression of other gene which contribute to cancer development. In this project, we aim to investigate the prevalence and consequence of mutation in the gene which control chromatin states. In order to do this, we will look at germline and tumour mutation in these gene in cancer patient genome to try to understand which mutation are important and may lead to tumour development. See more Characterisation of the pan-cancer epigenomic mutational landscape Simon Furney 10/02/2023 Within cells, DNA is organised and packaged by protein complex known a chromatin. Certain family of gene are responsible for controlling this packaging of DNA in chromatin. This allows gene to be expressed and translated into proteins, or repressed so that the gene are not expressed at the wrong time or in the wrong cell type. However, many of these gene that control these process are mutated in cancer leading to abnormal chromatin (epigenomic) states. This in turn lead to abnormal expression or repression of other gene which contribute to cancer development. In this project, we aim to investigate the prevalence and consequence of mutation in the gene which control chromatin states. In order to do this, we will look at germline and tumour mutation in these gene in cancer patient genome to try to understand which mutation are important and may lead to tumour development. microRNA-associated variation in rare epilepsy Project Lead Ifeolutembi Fashina Project Date 08/02/2023 Lay Summary This project aim to identify class of gene regulator that cause epilepsy. This study is part of an effort to understand how inherited change in non-protein coding feature influence epilepsy. We need to use whole genome data from consortium like Genomics England, to test these gene regulator in different epilepsy subtypes. Successful interrogation could point molecular researcher towards druggable pathways. See more microRNA-associated variation in rare epilepsy Ifeolutembi Fashina 08/02/2023 This project aim to identify class of gene regulator that cause epilepsy. This study is part of an effort to understand how inherited change in non-protein coding feature influence epilepsy. We need to use whole genome data from consortium like Genomics England, to test these gene regulator in different epilepsy subtypes. Successful interrogation could point molecular researcher towards druggable pathways. Analysis of MCPH1 and CSMD1 in the 100,000 genome cohort Project Lead Sandra Bell Project Date 07/02/2023 Lay Summary Genetic change in the developmental gene MCPH1 and CSMD1 have been identified in a range of cancer type particularly breast cancer. We wish to perform a comprehensive review of all MCPH1 and CSMD1 germline and somatic variant in the 100,000 genome cohort. We aim to determine the extent to which the MCPH1 and CSMD1 gene contribute to both neurological disorder and cancer development. See more Analysis of MCPH1 and CSMD1 in the 100,000 genome cohort Sandra Bell 07/02/2023 Genetic change in the developmental gene MCPH1 and CSMD1 have been identified in a range of cancer type particularly breast cancer. We wish to perform a comprehensive review of all MCPH1 and CSMD1 germline and somatic variant in the 100,000 genome cohort. We aim to determine the extent to which the MCPH1 and CSMD1 gene contribute to both neurological disorder and cancer development. Large-scale functional characterisation of variant observed in patient Project Lead Matthew Hurles Project Date 06/02/2023 Lay Summary We are using an experimental technique, Saturation Genome Editing, to generate score for assessing the severity for all possible genetic variant within genes. The map we compile can be used by clinician in the interpretation of variant of uncertain significance, facilitating diagnosis for those with genetic disease. The availability of variant data from affected population is critical to compile accurate variant effect map for the gene of interest. We plan to use the anonymised variant information from patient recruited a part of the Rare Disease Programme in GEL to establish the specificity and sensitivity of the variant map we generate. We will identify and export de-identified DNA sequence variant present in specific gene with disease associations, along with their inheritance status. These variant will be tested in our functional assay alongside hundred of other SNVs, and will then serve a positive control variant in the analysis of our experimental data, and thus help establish the efficacy of our map to disambiguate previously uninterpretable variants. We anticipate performing this data extraction for approximately 10 gene per month, for a total of around 300 genes. This work will be carried out by the Hurles Group (). See more Large-scale functional characterisation of variant observed in patient Matthew Hurles 06/02/2023 We are using an experimental technique, Saturation Genome Editing, to generate score for assessing the severity for all possible genetic variant within genes. The map we compile can be used by clinician in the interpretation of variant of uncertain significance, facilitating diagnosis for those with genetic disease. The availability of variant data from affected population is critical to compile accurate variant effect map for the gene of interest. We plan to use the anonymised variant information from patient recruited a part of the Rare Disease Programme in GEL to establish the specificity and sensitivity of the variant map we generate. We will identify and export de-identified DNA sequence variant present in specific gene with disease associations, along with their inheritance status. These variant will be tested in our functional assay alongside hundred of other SNVs, and will then serve a positive control variant in the analysis of our experimental data, and thus help establish the efficacy of our map to disambiguate previously uninterpretable variants. We anticipate performing this data extraction for approximately 10 gene per month, for a total of around 300 genes. This work will be carried out by the Hurles Group (). Comparative medical genetics to facilitate the interpretation of rare variation Project Lead Bushra Haque Project Date 02/02/2023 Lay Summary Reading entire DNA sequence of individual provides a comprehensive view of the unique genetic variation that contributes to a range of diseases, from rare genetic disorder to common cancers. Genetic variant create change of the genetic code that often negatively impact protein that DNA code for and cause harmful effects. However, distinguishing rare variant that cause disease from the majority that have no consequence remains a challenge. This study aim to develop and test a new approach for determining if rare variant are associated with human disease. An area that ha not been investigated is the overlap between germline DNA variant that cause genetic disorder in human and variant in other contexts. Germline variant refer to change that are incorporated into the DNA of every cell in the body that are often inherited from the egg and sperm cell during conception. Examples of variant in other context include somatic variants, that occur in specific cell type and cause cancer, or non-human animal variants. This study aim to explores this further by extracting variant from databases, such a cancer mutation database and the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Animals (OMIA). Several hundred of these disease-causing variant were extracted from these database and will be queried in human germline database including ClinVar and the GEL database. Since these variant are the same, there is a clear functional consequence of these variant in other context that can be used to interpret their impact in human genome that cause germline disease. This data will help to improve the way we interpret novel rare variant to be disease-causing in human and improve clinical diagnosis to allow better treatment and health outcomes. See more Comparative medical genetics to facilitate the interpretation of rare variation Bushra Haque 02/02/2023 Reading entire DNA sequence of individual provides a comprehensive view of the unique genetic variation that contributes to a range of diseases, from rare genetic disorder to common cancers. Genetic variant create change of the genetic code that often negatively impact protein that DNA code for and cause harmful effects. However, distinguishing rare variant that cause disease from the majority that have no consequence remains a challenge. This study aim to develop and test a new approach for determining if rare variant are associated with human disease. An area that ha not been investigated is the overlap between germline DNA variant that cause genetic disorder in human and variant in other contexts. Germline variant refer to change that are incorporated into the DNA of every cell in the body that are often inherited from the egg and sperm cell during conception. Examples of variant in other context include somatic variants, that occur in specific cell type and cause cancer, or non-human animal variants. This study aim to explores this further by extracting variant from databases, such a cancer mutation database and the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Animals (OMIA). Several hundred of these disease-causing variant were extracted from these database and will be queried in human germline database including ClinVar and the GEL database. Since these variant are the same, there is a clear functional consequence of these variant in other context that can be used to interpret their impact in human genome that cause germline disease. This data will help to improve the way we interpret novel rare variant to be disease-causing in human and improve clinical diagnosis to allow better treatment and health outcomes. Genetic determinant for healthcare cost - genCOST consortium Project Lead Andrea Ganna Project Date 31/01/2023 Lay Summary Healthcare cost continue to rise worldwide, and in 2018, global healthcare spending reached $8.3 trillion, or 10% of the global gross domestic product. Accurate measurement of healthcare cost associated with different risk factor and health outcome is important to prioritize public health promotion and prevention programs. Moreover, healthcare utilization, and associated healthcare costs, can be used to compare the impact of risk factor on individual health burden in a disease-agnostic manner. Thus, analysis of healthcare cost is of significant interest from an epidemiological, public health, and policy perspective. In this project we aim to study the impact of genetic factor on healthcare cost. There are three major motivations. First, healthcare cost can provide an objective measure of morbidity. Thus, genetic association with healthcare cost can help identify biological pathway that are implicated in overall health maintenance. Second, implementation of genetic-based screening tool in a clinical setting requires cost-effectiveness evaluations. Estimating the relationship between genetic risk factor and healthcare cost can help estimating the cost-effectiveness of novel genetic-based interventions. Third, genetic association with healthcare cost can be used to inform the causal relationship between modifiable risk factor and healthcare cost using statistical genetic approach. See more Genetic determinant for healthcare cost - genCOST consortium Andrea Ganna 31/01/2023 Healthcare cost continue to rise worldwide, and in 2018, global healthcare spending reached $8.3 trillion, or 10% of the global gross domestic product. Accurate measurement of healthcare cost associated with different risk factor and health outcome is important to prioritize public health promotion and prevention programs. Moreover, healthcare utilization, and associated healthcare costs, can be used to compare the impact of risk factor on individual health burden in a disease-agnostic manner. Thus, analysis of healthcare cost is of significant interest from an epidemiological, public health, and policy perspective. In this project we aim to study the impact of genetic factor on healthcare cost. There are three major motivations. First, healthcare cost can provide an objective measure of morbidity. Thus, genetic association with healthcare cost can help identify biological pathway that are implicated in overall health maintenance. Second, implementation of genetic-based screening tool in a clinical setting requires cost-effectiveness evaluations. Estimating the relationship between genetic risk factor and healthcare cost can help estimating the cost-effectiveness of novel genetic-based interventions. Third, genetic association with healthcare cost can be used to inform the causal relationship between modifiable risk factor and healthcare cost using statistical genetic approach. G4 quadruplex region of the first Intron Project Lead Stephen Henderson Project Date 30/01/2023 Lay Summary We have identified important regulatory region of the genome called G4 quadruplexes. We wish to search through multiple cancer to see if these region which we know to be biologically important may also be selectively disrupted by mutation in different type of cancer. See more G4 quadruplex region of the first Intron Stephen Henderson 30/01/2023 We have identified important regulatory region of the genome called G4 quadruplexes. We wish to search through multiple cancer to see if these region which we know to be biologically important may also be selectively disrupted by mutation in different type of cancer. External validation of a clinical score estimating the pre-test probability of obtaining a molecular diagnosis using massive parallel sequencing data in adult patient with kidney disease of unknown origin. Project Lead Albertien van Eerde Project Date 20/01/2023 Lay Summary We developed a clinical score estimating the pre-test probability of obtaining a molecular diagnosis in adult patient with kidney disease without a genetic diagnosis. It wa internally validated using a cohort of 497 patient from Sorbonne University hospital (Paris, France), with a good discriminative performance (AUROC 0.73) and calibration. See more External validation of a clinical score estimating the pre-test probability of obtaining a molecular diagnosis using massive parallel sequencing data in adult patient with kidney disease of unknown origin. Albertien van Eerde 20/01/2023 We developed a clinical score estimating the pre-test probability of obtaining a molecular diagnosis in adult patient with kidney disease without a genetic diagnosis. It wa internally validated using a cohort of 497 patient from Sorbonne University hospital (Paris, France), with a good discriminative performance (AUROC 0.73) and calibration. Quality Control of somatic call from whole-genome sequencing Project Lead Giulio Caravagna Project Date 11/01/2023 Lay Summary The prelude to interpret cancer genome is to generate good-quality sequencing data. With the advent of high-resolution whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data we are seeing the flourishing of many distinct bioinformatics algorithm to call somatic mutation (and more complex alterations) from WGS data, but Quality Control (QC) algorithm for such call are still missing. These algorithm are fundamental to flag good-quality from bad-quality data, eventually refining data-quality until desired criterion are met. In this project we will use the wealth of pan-cancer data at Genomics England to to develop and test new QC algorithm for WGS data, allowing researcher to get the best out of their sequencing datasets. See more Quality Control of somatic call from whole-genome sequencing Giulio Caravagna 11/01/2023 The prelude to interpret cancer genome is to generate good-quality sequencing data. With the advent of high-resolution whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data we are seeing the flourishing of many distinct bioinformatics algorithm to call somatic mutation (and more complex alterations) from WGS data, but Quality Control (QC) algorithm for such call are still missing. These algorithm are fundamental to flag good-quality from bad-quality data, eventually refining data-quality until desired criterion are met. In this project we will use the wealth of pan-cancer data at Genomics England to to develop and test new QC algorithm for WGS data, allowing researcher to get the best out of their sequencing datasets. Genotyping MUCs VNTR linked to Ovarian cancer/fertility using Whole Genome Sequencing Project Lead Steven Conlan Project Date 10/01/2023 Lay Summary Mucin (MUC) protein are large protein that contain repeating subunit called variable number tandem repeat region (VNTR) that are decorated with sugar molecule (glycosylated). They are found throughout the body, including in the uterus (womb) and ovaries. We are proposing to investigate the relationship between the VNTR length of two protein MUC1 and MUC16 in relation to fertility and cancer making use of 100k genome project. The fertility part of the project would investigate MUC1 VNTR length linked to fertility status (number of pregnancies). Despite thorough investigation many case of infertility remain unexplained. Although normal embryo are transferred in most in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) successful pregnancy only take place in about one in five attempts. Failure of implantation of the embryo is probably the reason for the lack of success. The level of MUC1 increase after ovulation and persists during implantation. High genetic variation in the number of VNTRs is a characteristic of MUC 1, and we will test whether this variation could be linked to pregnancy outcome. In the ovarian cancer part of the project we would look at VNTR length in MUC16 a it is the ovarian cancer biomarker known a CA125. CA125 is not always a reliable diagnostic marker for ovarian cancer (although it is the best marker we have, and is excellent in monitoring ovarian cancer treatment response). We think that false positive CA125 test could be due to VNTR length (genetic variation), and knowing the relationship between MUC16 VNTR length and MUC16 (CA125) level could give a better risk score for ovarian cancer diagnosis/detection. See more Genotyping MUCs VNTR linked to Ovarian cancer/fertility using Whole Genome Sequencing Steven Conlan 10/01/2023 Mucin (MUC) protein are large protein that contain repeating subunit called variable number tandem repeat region (VNTR) that are decorated with sugar molecule (glycosylated). They are found throughout the body, including in the uterus (womb) and ovaries. We are proposing to investigate the relationship between the VNTR length of two protein MUC1 and MUC16 in relation to fertility and cancer making use of 100k genome project. The fertility part of the project would investigate MUC1 VNTR length linked to fertility status (number of pregnancies). Despite thorough investigation many case of infertility remain unexplained. Although normal embryo are transferred in most in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) successful pregnancy only take place in about one in five attempts. Failure of implantation of the embryo is probably the reason for the lack of success. The level of MUC1 increase after ovulation and persists during implantation. High genetic variation in the number of VNTRs is a characteristic of MUC 1, and we will test whether this variation could be linked to pregnancy outcome. In the ovarian cancer part of the project we would look at VNTR length in MUC16 a it is the ovarian cancer biomarker known a CA125. CA125 is not always a reliable diagnostic marker for ovarian cancer (although it is the best marker we have, and is excellent in monitoring ovarian cancer treatment response). We think that false positive CA125 test could be due to VNTR length (genetic variation), and knowing the relationship between MUC16 VNTR length and MUC16 (CA125) level could give a better risk score for ovarian cancer diagnosis/detection. Additional Findings Evaluation: health economic analysis Project Lead Lyn Chitty Project Date 09/01/2023 Lay Summary 100,000 Genomes Project participant were asked if they wanted additional health information to be looked for in their genome sequence, known a 'additional findings'. For those who said yes, gene alteration or spelling mistake were looked for in a specific list of gene that could increase the risk of developing certain health conditions. These alteration are rare - it is expected that about 1 in 100 participant will have one of these finding - but for this small of people number step can be taken to reduce the likelihood of the health condition developing, or the condition can be treated or monitored. The process of looking for 'additional findings' and the step or treatment which may follow a new finding will come with extra cost to the NHS and the patient. It may also bring benefit from taking early action to treat, or reduce the risk of, a health condition. It is import to ass both the potential cost and benefit to help decide whether or not we should look for 'additional findings' in NHS patients, including whether it will be a good use of tax payer money. This project will use standard health economics method to carry out this assessment. See more Additional Findings Evaluation: health economic analysis Lyn Chitty 09/01/2023 100,000 Genomes Project participant were asked if they wanted additional health information to be looked for in their genome sequence, known a 'additional findings'. For those who said yes, gene alteration or spelling mistake were looked for in a specific list of gene that could increase the risk of developing certain health conditions. These alteration are rare - it is expected that about 1 in 100 participant will have one of these finding - but for this small of people number step can be taken to reduce the likelihood of the health condition developing, or the condition can be treated or monitored. The process of looking for 'additional findings' and the step or treatment which may follow a new finding will come with extra cost to the NHS and the patient. It may also bring benefit from taking early action to treat, or reduce the risk of, a health condition. It is import to ass both the potential cost and benefit to help decide whether or not we should look for 'additional findings' in NHS patients, including whether it will be a good use of tax payer money. This project will use standard health economics method to carry out this assessment. Additional Findings Evaluation: health economic analysis Project Lead Lyn Chitty Project Date 09/01/2023 Lay Summary 100,000 Genomes Project participant were asked if they wanted additional health information to be looked for in their genome sequence, known a 'additional findings'. For those who said yes, gene alteration or spelling mistake were looked for in a specific list of gene that could increase the risk of developing certain health conditions. These alteration are rare - it is expected that about 1 in 100 participant will have one of these finding - but for this small of people number step can be taken to reduce the likelihood of the health condition developing, or the condition can be treated or monitored. The process of looking for 'additional findings' and the step or treatment which may follow a new finding will come with extra cost to the NHS and the patient. It may also bring benefit from taking early action to treat, or reduce the risk of, a health condition. It is import to ass both the potential cost and benefit to help decide whether or not we should look for 'additional findings' in NHS patients, including whether it will be a good use of tax payer money. This project will use standard health economics method to carry out this assessment. See more Additional Findings Evaluation: health economic analysis Lyn Chitty 09/01/2023 100,000 Genomes Project participant were asked if they wanted additional health information to be looked for in their genome sequence, known a 'additional findings'. For those who said yes, gene alteration or spelling mistake were looked for in a specific list of gene that could increase the risk of developing certain health conditions. These alteration are rare - it is expected that about 1 in 100 participant will have one of these finding - but for this small of people number step can be taken to reduce the likelihood of the health condition developing, or the condition can be treated or monitored. The process of looking for 'additional findings' and the step or treatment which may follow a new finding will come with extra cost to the NHS and the patient. It may also bring benefit from taking early action to treat, or reduce the risk of, a health condition. It is import to ass both the potential cost and benefit to help decide whether or not we should look for 'additional findings' in NHS patients, including whether it will be a good use of tax payer money. This project will use standard health economics method to carry out this assessment. 1-20 of 714 Next Explore Genomics England About u Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search ... PanelApp PanelApp PanelApp The Genomics England PanelApp wa created to enable virtual gene panel to be viewed and commented on by expert within the clinical and scientific community around the world. Already a reviewer? Improving diagnosis through expert consensus Genomics England developed PanelApp to allow expert from around the world to share knowledge and insight on gene panels. Think of it like the Wikipedia of genes, with our dedicated team of curator checking every entry and a simple-yet-innovative 'traffic light' system indicating the level of evidence of a gene to cause a certain phenotype or disease. Resources for NHS Genomic Medicine Service (GMS) user A valuable resource for the scientific community PanelApp provides the opportunity to encourage a consensus for which gene have enough evidence to be included on a diagnostic panel for a particular disease. The aim is to use expertise and knowledge to establish a consensus final green diagnostic grade gene panel for each disorder to aid clinical interpretation of genomes. How PanelApp work See the process for establishing panel below 1 Expert reviewer register for access 2 Initial gene panel are created in PanelApp 3 Reviewers share their expertise 4 Our internal curation team confirms finding 5 A diagnostic-grade gene panel is established How PanelApp is useful for you Im a healthcare professional Review gene(s) on panel(s) for disease(s) matching your expertiseAdd gene missing from a panel that is used in clinical diagnosisUse panel for exome/genome analysisLook at the evidence for inclusion of a gene(s) in your patient report/ during a MDTAdd your publication a evidence for gene-disease relationshipsProvide input on whether gene panel should be combined/mergedView reviewer comment about the evidence for the gene-disease association(s)Suggest additional panel to be added for the NHS Genomic Medicine Service Im a researcher Use a a source of data for hypothesis generation.Study gene-disease relationship for genome interpretation, pathway analysis and moreUse red and amber gene a a source of gene needing further evidence/investigation within your disease of interest for certain diseases.Review gene and/or panel you have expertise in to help genome interpretation.Add novel gene to panel that you find within your research.Add your publication a evidence for gene-disease relationships.Provide input on whether gene panel should be combined/mergedQuery PanelApp data Im interested in the gene involved in disease Search for a gene to see the disease(s) it is linked toSearch for a disease that you are interested in to see the relevant gene panelView reviewer comment about the evidence for the gene-disease association(s) Im a bioinformatician Use panel for your exome/genome interpretation pipelineQuery PanelApp dataQuery using Get involved Why be a PanelApp reviewer? Share your expert knowledge A community of expert with different background from around the world contribute Improve diagnosis for patient Help gain a consensus of which gene have a diagnostic-grade level of evidence Capture your curation effort Add your publication and put your curation effort toward important outcome Download or query panel PanelApp is open source, so you can gather information that you and others have contributed to Further resource and information Get in touch If you have any question or suggestions, please email us. Explore Genomics England Research and Partnerships About u Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. Please enable cookies. Email Protection You are unable to access this email address genomicsengland.co.uk The website from which you got to this page is protected by Cloudflare. Email address on that page have been hidden in order to keep them from being accessed by malicious bots. You must enable Javascript in your browser in order to decode the e-mail address. If you have a website and are interested in protecting it in a similar way, you can . Cloudflare Ray ID: 88082e417ac32e5c Your IP: Click to reveal 193.190.2.247 Performance & security by This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Media enquiry Media enquiry Media enquiry Information for member of the media. Media contact If you have enquiry or would like to get in touch about writing a story about Genomics England, please contact our team. Read our language guide Developed by the Participant Panel, this guide recommends how to talk about the people whose data is curated by Genomics England. More about u About u Genomic Healthcare Genomic Healthcare Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Accessibility statement Accessibility statement Accessibility We have aimed to make our website accessible and user friendly. Where possible, we have made every effort to make our website accessible to AA standard and to be compatible with assistive technologies. Accessibility Statement for Genomics England Limited This accessibility statement applies to the whole of the domain. It also cover the document on the domain. This website is run by Genomics England Limited. We want a many people a possible to be able to use this website. For example, that mean you should be able to: change colours, contrast level and fontszoom in up to 400% without the text spilling off the screen and without content being truncated or overlappingnavigate most of the website using just a keyboardnavigate most of the website using speech recognition softwarelisten to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent version of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver)Weve also made the website text a simple a possible to understand. ha advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability. How accessible this website is We know some part of this website are not fully accessible: Some link text is insufficiently described and doe not convey the purpose. Some textboxes are missing a visible label to describe it.Some form do not include instruction on how to submit data.Some PDFs and other downloadable document may not be accessible.Issues affecting people with low vision Many combination of text and background colour do not have sufficient colour contrast.Most focus indicator do not have sufficient colour contrast against the background.Issues affecting video and audio content The caption for some video content do not identify the different speakers.The video in the Origins page doe not contain any captions. Some video have no alternative or audio description for the visual content.Issues affecting screen reader user Some link displayed visually a card do not provide a good user experience for screen reader when navigating to them and operating them.Some form textboxes and button do not have any label or instruction for screen reader to read.Some heading are missing so screen reader user cannot identify the structure of the content.When error message are displayed, they are not automatically announced by screen readers.Some image that have a text alternative do not correctly describe the link destination. There are also some image do not have appropriate text alternatives, so people using screen reader are reading unnecessary details.Feedback and contact information If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording: Email: Call: 0808 2819 535Write to: Genomics England. Queen Mary University of London, Dawson Hall, Charterhouse Square. London, EC1M 6BQ.Well consider your request and will usually get back to you in 5 working days. Large amount of information may take up to 10 working days. Reporting accessibility problem with this website Were always looking to improve the accessibility of this website. If you find any problem not listed on this page or think were not meeting accessibility requirements, . Or contact her via the . Or write to her at Genomics England, Queen Mary University of London, Dawson Hall, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ. Enforcement procedure The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the accessibility regulations). If youre not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS). Contacting u by phone or visiting u in person We provide a telephone number, email address and a contact form on the . Technical information about this website accessibility Genomics England Limited is committed to making it website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018. Compliance status This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemption listed below. Non-accessible content Some part of our website may not work for everyone. The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons. Non-compliance with the accessibility regulation The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons. Some video content contains multiple speaker which the caption do not differentiate between those speakers. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.2 (Captions (Pre recorded)).The video in the Origins page doe not contain any captions. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.2 (Captions (Pre recorded)).Some video have no alternative or audio description provided for the visual content of the video - This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.3 (Audio description or medium alternative (Pre-recorded)) and WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.5 (Audio description (Pre recorded).Some menu links, fieldsets, data tables, labels, headings, buttons, visual card container and iframes are not marked up correctly for screen readers. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.1 (Info and relationships) and WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (Name, role, value).Some input field that collect an individual personal data do not have the necessary autocomplete attributes. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.5 (Identify Input Purpose).Some textboxes do not have visible text labels. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 3.3.2 (Labels or instructions).Some form do not include instruction on how to submit data. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 3.3.2 (Labels or instructions).There are HTML validation error on most pages. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.1 (Parsing).Many combination of text and background colour do not have sufficient colour contrast. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.3 (Colour Contrast).Most focus indicator do not have sufficient colour contrast against the background. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.11 (Non-text Contrast).The error message on some page cannot be programmatically determined through role or property such that they can be presented to the user by assistive technology without receiving focus. This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.3 (Status Messages).Some PDFs and other downloadable document may not be accessible.We are currently working on a roadmap for fixing these issues. Disproportionate burden We do not currently expect to use the disproportionate burden exemption a a justification for not fixing any accessibility issues. Content thats not within the scope of the accessibility regulation PDFs and other document Some of our PDFs and Word document are exempt because they were published before 23 September 2018 and do not relate to current administrative processes. Nevertheless, we plan to make them all conformant with WCAG 2.1 AA by the end of 2022. Any new PDFs or Word document we publish will meet WCAG 2.1 AA. What were doing to improve accessibility By the end of 2022 we plan to make all our PDFs conformant with WCAG 2.1 AA. We are currently working on a roadmap for fixing the issue for the website. Preparation of this accessibility statement This statement wa prepared on 17 February 2022. It wa last published on 17 February 2022. This website wa last tested on 07 February 2022. The test wa carried out by Test Partners Ltd supported by Cyber-Duck Ltd. We followed GOV.UK guidance on deciding how to check the Genomics England website a follows: We used an automated website mapping tool to identify all the page and document on the website.We grouped the page according to type, such a all the News pages, Research and Partnerships, etc.We manually assessed a number of page from each group to determine the level of consistency within the group and the type of content on those pages.We manually assessed all the unique page such a the home page and Contact Us to determine the type of content on those pages.We identified a minimum representative subset of page that contain example of the most common layouts, components, and features, including:The header and footer.Important unique pages.Pages with text content and data tables.Pages with informational images, image of text and video content.Interactive element such a forms, tabbed interfaces, carousels, hide / reveal functionality and content filtering.AJAX content loading.We conducted a manual WCAG audit on the representative subset of pages. Using our website For best result we recommend using an up-to-date version of the Chrome, Firefox, Safari or Internet Explorer web browsers. Please note that certain feature will not be supported in older web browsers. The minimum requirement for Internet Explorer is IE9. Explore Genomics England News and Events About u About u Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Privacy notice Privacy notice Genomics England privacy notice Our privacy notice give general information about who we are, what we do and who to contact if you want more information (such a to exercise your information rights), a well a more detail about how we use your personal data. General information Genomics Englands priority is to ensure that the data of all participant and everyone it deal with is protected and that we are fully compliant with the latest data protection legislation. Who we are and what we do Genomics England is a limited company wholly owned by the Department of Health and Social Care (company registration 08493132). We were created to run the 100,000 Genomes Project, a project instigated by former Prime Minister David Cameron in order to research cancer and rare diseases. That project ha now come to an end. The Project is transitioning to where the main source of recruitment, sample and data acquisition, and mechanism for return of result will be via the NHS Genomic Medicine Service (NHS GMS). What we use your personal data for Genomics England process personal data for a number of reasons. These include: research,providing the NHS Genomic Medicine Service (NHS GMS),recruitment,using this website,organising conference andproviding access to our research environment to other research institution and businesses.Genomics England is a data controller, and we are registered with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), registration number ZA021653. Valid from 17 June 2022 To find out about how we use your personal data, click to expand the section that relates to you below. Youve had a test through the NHS Genomic Medicine Service This page is valid from 17 June 2022 The NHS Genomic Medicine Service (NHS GMS) is the arm of the NHS working to enable the NHS to harness the power of genomic technology and science to improve the health of our population. If you're a patient of the NHS Genomic Medicine Service, you may be offered whole genome sequencing a part of your clinical care. You will be asked if you want to donate genome sequence and health data, and/or your sample (blood/saliva/tissue, etc.), for research. If you agree, your sample will be stored securely and your data will be added to the National Genomic Research Library. This is a secure national database of pseudonymised genomic and health data managed by Genomics England. NHS England, on behalf of the hospital (Trusts) that provided your genomic test, will allow Genomics England to access your identified data to link you to the National Genomic Research Library. Genomics England then pseudonymise your linked data so that approved researcher can use the pseudonymised sample and data to study disease and look for new treatments. Their research might help you and others now or in the future. Genomics England Ltd is a Data Controller under data protection legislation for the purpose of the National Genomic Research Library. Genomics England process the following type of Personal Data: Patient Identifiers including NHS NumberDemographics name, address, date of birth, ethnicity, registered GPClinical pathway this is a tool which help clinician guide a patient's treatment to make sure the care provided is consistent.Family identifier where relevant. This may identify one or multiple people in your family group where it is relevant to your health record.Clinical Indicators nature of condition, detail of conditionClinical measurement and observation relevant to condition specific to cancer or rare and heritable disease pathwaysClinical ethnicity and clinical sex detailsDetails of genomic testing and related procedure e.g. the type of test performedLink to previous request and testsWhole Genome Sequence this is your DNA sequence recorded in a computer file.Health record Genomics England process the following type of Special Categories of Personal Data: Racial or ethnic originGenetic dataHealth data All data that go into the research environment is pseudonymised. What doe pseudonymised data mean? Pseudonymisation mean that we take information which would identify you directly out of the data, such a name, address, date of birth and NHS number, and replace them with a unique identifier that only we at Genomics England can use to re-identify you. Researchers that are given access to the Library do so under strict agreement and their access is reviewed by our Access Review Committee, which includes patient and participant representatives. Researchers must also have approval for their study prior to access being granted. The data can only be viewed by researchers, it cannot be taken out of the research environment without permission. You can read more about the Committee . Due to the detailed nature of the data it can never be truly anonymised, there is always a small risk that an individual may recognise your specific rare condition or other aspect of your health. This is because some clinician also have access to the Library to conduct research they themselves are involved in. Lawful basis For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) on which to process it. Below are the lawful base we use. Type of data and purpose Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) Identifiable data used to: request additional health data from NHS England,check you have given permission for u to use your data in the research environmentcheck you havent withdrawn your consent andPut the data through the pseudonymisation process, ready to move into the Research Library We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research Pseudonymised data used to conduct research and to investigate, develop and test new tool used to improve research. We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research Withdrawing your data from the Research Environment If you would like to withdraw your data from the research environment please download and complete our . You can email it to or you can post it to Data Protection Team at the address in the contact u section of this notice. Please be aware that this process and the consent you give to take part in this research is separate to the National data opt out. The National data opt-out is a service that allows patient to opt out of their NHS confidential patient information being used for research and planning. You can find out more If you do choose to participate in the National Data Opt Out, we would no longer receive the additional data we receive from the NHS that researcher use and this would limit the value of the research chosen to take part in. You are a participant of the Baby and Mum Samples Study (BaMSS) Description of data use We will be collecting blood and saliva sample from you and your baby to ass the best way of collecting these sample to sequence a baby genome. In addition to the sample we will also collect some other personal information to help u understand what method work best to get good quality sample from different people. What data do we collect?The data we collect about you: EthnicityPregnancy and birth history About your baby: GenderEthnicityDate of birth Although your care team will know you and your baby have taken part in the study, Genomics England wont be collecting your name, address or any other contact details. Well be assigning you a code in order to de-identify or pseudonymise your data a much a possible and protect your privacy. Lawful basis UK GDPR classifies your personal data in two ways: Personal data such a your name, email address and phone numberSpecial category data such a information relating to your health and including your DNA (your genomic sequence), or your ethnicity. For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation on which to process it. Below are the lawful base we use: Type of data and purpose Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) Personal Data collected together with your blood or saliva sample We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research. What doe pseudonymised data mean?Pseudonymisation mean that information which would identify you directly, such a name, address, date of birth and NHS number, is removed before the data is given to u and replaced with a unique identifier. Due to the detailed nature of the data, it can never be truly anonymised, there is always a small risk that an individual may recognise your specific rare pregnancy and birth history or other aspect of your health if they have been involved in your care. You or your child is a participant of the Generations Study (part of the Newborns Programme) and the sequenced DNA and health data will be included in the National Genomic Research Library Description of data use To analyse the whole genome sequences, To refer child with positive finding for diagnostic testing, To invite to take complete a survey on behalf of the study evaluation partner, To process and reimburse travel claims, To send text reminder to mother about the study, Check the consent status of participant Manage withdrawal request To request additional data from the NHS, PHE, NDRS, ONS etc. Put the data through the pseudonymisation process Research Develop and test new tool used to improve research. What data do we collect? Name and contact detail for the newborn and mother. The newborn sequenced genome created from sample of blood, tissue or saliva. The mother maternity record. Types of data Purpose Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) Names and contact detail used for the purpose of providing update on the Generations Study. We rely on Article 6(1)(a) consent. N/A Name, contact details, NHS number, study & participant ID, whole genome sequencing, diagnostic outcome data, Analysis of WGS to identify whether genetic variation exist for the selected rare diseases. Communications such a no finding letter & invitation to participate in other studies. Study evaluation. Requesting lifelong health data from NHSE. PHE, NDRS & ONS etc. Internally process to match data together from different source and make it ready for publishing in the NGRL. We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research. Name, contact details, NHS number, whole genome sequencing and analysis data. Referral to NHS clinician for additional rare disease screening where there is a positive finding. Direct patient care we rely on Art 9 (2)(h) Health or social care (with a basis in law) Name, contact details, pseudonymised data relating to WGS, analysis and diagnostic outcome Study evaluation We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research. Name, contact details, bank detail to process and reimburse travel claim We rely on Article 6(1)(a) consent. N/A The ethnicity of the biological parents. Medical test results. Electronic copy of the newborn health record from the NHS, your GP and other organisation (such a NHS Digital and Public Health England). Information about any illness or stay in hospital. Copies of hospital or clinic records, medical notes, social care, and local or national disease registries. Relevant imaging data from your NHS records, such a MRI scans, X-rays or pathology images. Lawful basis Who the data is shared with: Study evaluation partner NHS Trusts (diagnostic purposes) Other researcher Some personal data such a name, NHS Number, Date of Birth, Gender, Postcode is shared with those we receive lifelong data from such a NHS England. This is so they can identify participant to share data with Genomics England. Pseudonymised data is shared with researcher What doe pseudonymised data mean? Pseudonymisation mean that we remove information which would identify you directly, such a name, address, date of birth and NHS number, and replace them with a unique identifier. Due to the detailed nature of the data, it can never be truly anonymised, there is always a small risk that an individual may recognise your specific rare condition or other aspect of your health. This is because some clinician also have access to the NGRL to conduct research, they themselves are involved in. Who can access the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL)? Before we grant anyone access to the NGRL, we ensure that agreement are in place that include strict rule and process on how your pseudonymised personal information is shared safely and securely. Researchers access is reviewed by our Access Review Committee, which includes patient and participant representatives. Researchers must also have approval for their study prior to access being granted. The data can only be viewed by researchers, it cannot be taken out of the research environment without permission. You can read more about the Committee on our website. Those who are given permission to access the NGRL include: Academic researcher through our Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnerships (GECIPs). You can learn about the work the different GECIP domain are doing through our website Commercial researcher through our Discovery Forum Clinicians Genomics England employee You agreed to donate your sequenced DNA and your health data to the 100,000 Genomes Project or the National Genomic Research Library Description of data use Data in the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL) includes personal data donated for use in research through: the 100,000 Genomes Project (including the pilot stages)other genomic research project What data do we collect?The data we collect includes the following type of data: your sequenced genome created from sample of blood, tissue or saliva.Your medical test results.Electronic copy of your health record from the NHS, your GP and other organisation (such a NHS England and Public Health England).Information about any illness or stay in hospital including your primary diagnosis and any historic diagnosis going back a far a medical record allow.Copies of hospital or clinic records, medical notes, social care, and local or national disease registries.Relevant imaging data from your NHS records, such a MRI scans, X-rays or pathology images. Lawful basis UK GDPR classifies your personal data in two ways: Personal data such a your name, email address and phone numberSpecial category data such a information relating to your health and including your DNA (your genomic sequence) For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation on which to process it. For u to use your health data for research, we must have a research protocol reviewed and approved by the Research Ethics Committee (REC). The REC is a legal body established a part of the Health Research Authority. The Health Research Authority is the UK public body responsible for authorising research and review all our material to make sure they comply. Below are the lawful base we use: Type of data and purpose Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) Identifiable data used internally to match data together from different source and make it ready for publishing in the NGRL. We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research. Pseudonymised data used in the NGRL. These are to conduct research and investigate, test and develop new tool used to improve research. We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We rely on Article 9(2)(j) scientific research. What doe pseudonymised data mean?Pseudonymisation mean that we remove information which would identify you directly, such a name, address, date of birth and NHS number, and replace them with a unique identifier. Due to the detailed nature of the data, it can never be truly anonymised, there is always a small risk that an individual may recognise your specific rare condition or other aspect of your health. This is because some clinician also have access to the NGRL to conduct research, they themselves are involved in. Who can access the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL)?Before we grant anyone access to the NGRL, we ensure that agreement are in place that include strict rule and process on how your pseudonymised personal information is shared safely and securely. Researchers access is reviewed by our Access Review Committee, which includes patient and participant representatives. Researchers must also have approval for their study prior to access being granted. The data can only be viewed by researchers, it cannot be taken out of the research environment without permission. You can read more about the Committee on our . Those who are given permission to access the NGRL include: Academic researcher through our Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnerships (GECIPs). You can learn about the work the different GECIP domain are doing through Commercial researcher through our CliniciansGenomics England employee Withdrawing your data from the NGRL If you would like to withdraw your data from the NGRL please download and complete our . You can email it to or you can post it to Data Protection Team at the address in the contact u section of this notice. Please be aware that this process and the consent you give to take part in this research is separate to the National Data Opt Out. The National Data Opt-Out is a service that allows patient to opt out of their NHS confidential patient information being used for research and planning. You can find out more . If you do choose to participate in the National Data Opt Out, we would no longer receive the additional clinical data we receive from the NHS, and this would limit the value of the research you have chosen to take part in. You provided your DNA sample and health information a part of our COVID-19 research with the GenOMICC consortium Description of data use Genomics England Limited is working a part of the to develop a powerful database of genetic sequence combined with testing and health data to enable researcher to better understand and help in the fight against COVID-19. This privacy notice relates to two us of your information: Where you complete our web form to indicate your interest in contributing to the research; and Where you agreed to share your DNA and health record for research when: You were in hospital in the Intensive Care Unit with a severe case of COVID-19; or We invite you to take part after registering your interest on our web form 1. How we use the information we collect when you register an interest through our web form Our web form collects: Your first name, surname, date of birth, email address and contact telephone numberFirst part of your post codeYour gender and ethnicityWhether or not you tested positive for COVID-19Whether or not you were treated for COVID-19 in a hospital Intensive Care Unit (and if so, which Intensive Care Unit)Whether or not you had mild symptom of COVID-19 We will use the data to ass your suitability to take part in the research. Who will we share it with? To contact you about research, the information from the form will only be kept and used by Genomics England and the GenOMICC consortium member unless we get further permission from you. 2. How we use your data if you were in intensive care, or we invited you to join the research after you registered an interest via our online web-form How we use this information Your genome sequence and health record are pseudonymised, which mean we, take all the identifier out of the data (such a name, address, NHS number, date of birth, and replace them with a unique identifier. The data is then put in the COVID-19 research environment within our National Genomic Research Library (NGRL). Researchers can look at the data and perform their research but cannot take any of the data out unless it is anonymised and approved by our committee. Who share data with us? So that we can get the richest possible data for our research environment, the following organisation supply u with information about you and your health data: Type of Organisation Data collected NHS England Mortality dataHospital episode statisticsEmergency Care Data SetsMental HealthCancer registrationDiagnostic imaging dataset (No images)Patient reported outcome measuresSecondary us dataset Public Health Data (England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales) COVID-19 test result The Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC) Health data from intensive care International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium AdmissionPMHventilationsmokingOutcome data Lawful basis UK GDPR classifies your personal data in two ways: Personal data such a your name, email address and phone number Special category data such a information relating to your health and including your DNA (your genomic sequence) For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation on which to process it. For u to use your health data for research, we must have a research protocol reviewed and approved by the Research Ethics Committee (REC). The REC is a legal body established a part of the Health Research Authority. The Health Research Authority is the UK public body responsible for authorising research and review all our material to make sure they comply. Below are the lawful base we use: Use of data Type of data Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) 1. When you registered your interest to join the COVID-19 research project To allow u to contact you for research Personal data Special category data We rely on Article 6(1)(a) Consent We rely on Article 9(2)(a) explicit consent So we can send you more information by email Personal data only We rely on Article 6(1)(a) Consent n/a 2. When you agreed to join the COVID-19 research project and were in intensive care or we invited you after you registered an interest Personal data Special category data We rely on Article 6(1)(f) Legitimate interest We rely on Article 9(2)(j) a research purpose Withdrawing your data If you would like to withdraw your data from this project, please download and complete our . You can email it to or you can post it to Data Protection Team at the address in the contact u section of this notice. Please be aware that this process and the consent you give to take part in this research is separate to the National Data Opt Out. The National Data Opt-Out is a service that allows patient to opt out of their NHS confidential patient information being used for research and planning. You can find out more . If you do choose to participate in the National Data Opt Out, we would no longer receive the additional clinical data we receive from the NHS, and this would limit the value of the research you have chosen to take part in. You provided your DNA and your health information a part of our COVID-19 research with the Imperial College London REACT-GE Study Description of data use Genomics England Limited is working with Imperial College London to assist in their research into helping to better understand and help in the fight against COVID-19. This is called the REACT-GE Study. This privacy notice relates only to the personal information Genomics England collect about you. Imperial College London (REACT-GE) and the University of Edinburgh (GenOMICC) have their own privacy notice for the study describing how they use your data. These are linked below. The data Genomics England hold come from: The completed web form where you have agreed to take part in the research; and Where we have collected your DNA and health information directly. 1. How we use the information we collect when you register an interest through our web form Our web form collects: A unique code created by the REACT study Your first name, surname, date of birth, full address and contact detail Yourgenderandethnicity Whether or not you tested positive for COVID-19 Whether or not you were treated for COVID-19 in a hospital Intensive Care Unit A list of symptom you experienced This information is sent to our provider, Trust MSS, who will use it to arrange an appointment, collect your samples, ensure you have our information leaflet and ensure you complete the consent form. Who will we share it with? To contact you aboutresearch,the information from the formwill only be kept and used by the organisation that are part of the REACT-GE and GenOMICC study and their trusted third party unless we get further permission from you. 2. How we use your data a part of the COVID-19 genomic research study and the National Genomic Research Library (NGRL/Library) When you join the REACT-GE study, you also join the GenOMICC study. The information that Genomics England us for both study is the same and is placed in our secure COVID-19 research environment and our secure National Genomic Research Library research environment. So that you can easily find what information is being used by the different organisations, the following table provides links: Study name Imperial College London (ICL) University of Edinburgh Genomics England REACT-GE This link will take you to the privacy notice detailing how ICL us your information: n/a The following drop-down section of this web page (see above) describe how Genomics England us your data for each study: You agreed to donate your sequenced DNA and health data to the 100,000 Genomes Project or the National Genomic Research Library; AND If you provided your DNA sample and health information a part of our COVID-19 research with the GenOMICC consortium GenOMICC n/a This link will take you to the privacy notice detailing how the University of Edinburgh us your information: Lawful basis UK GDPR classifies your personal data in two ways: Personal data such a your name, email address and phone number Special category data such a information relating to your health and including your DNA (your genomic sequence) For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation on which to process it. For u to use your health data for research, we must have a research protocol reviewed and approved by the Research Ethics Committee (REC). The REC is a legal body established a part of the Health Research Authority. The Health Research Authority is the UK public body responsible for authorising research and review all our material to make sure they comply. Below are the lawful base we use: Use of data Typeof data Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) When you register online to take part in the REACT-GE study Personal data Special category data We rely on Article 6(1)(f) Legitimate Interests We rely on Article 9(2)(j) a research purpose 2. When you sign up to the REACT-GE study at the appointment with Trust MSS Personaldata Special category data We rely on Article 6(1)(f) Legitimate interest We rely on Article 9(2)(j)a research purpose. Withdrawing your data If you would like to withdraw your data from this project, please download and complete our . You can email it to or you can post it to Data Protection Team at the address in the contact u section of this notice. Please be aware that this process and the consent you give to take part in this research is separate to the National Data Opt Out. The National Data Opt-Out is a service that allows patient to opt out of their NHS confidential patient information being used for research and planning. You can find out more . If you do choose to participate in the National Data Opt Out, we would no longer receive the additional clinical data we receive from the NHS, and this would limit the value of the research you have chosen to take part in. You are a member of our Research Network or our Discovery Forum Description of data use You can find out more about the and the on our website. What data do we collect?We collect personal data which includes your name, address, telephone number, email address, gender, job title, affiliation and research institutions. We will also ask for your contact detail at your organisation, such a direct telephone and email address. To complete our membership information, we also need to know your skill and experience, qualifications, skills, training and other compliance requirement and professional memberships. Where we organise events, we may collect health and dietary information to better cater for you. Why do we need it and what do we do with it?We may use your personal data for the following purposes: When we process your application for membership of the Research Network or Discovery ForumCarrying out administration in relation to your membership.To communicate with you.To comply with applicable law and regulations.Other purpose relating to our operations, including managing account and records, legal, regulatory and internal investigation and debt administration. Who do we share it with? We may share your personal data with third party to enable u to: Carry out our activity in managing the Research Network or Discovery Forum.Monitor and improve the Genomics England research environments.Develop working partnerships.Organise events. Lawful basis For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) on which to process it. Below are the lawful base we use. Purpose Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) Managing the Research Network and Discovery Forum membership where the individual join We rely on Article 6(1)(b) entering into a contract with the data subject Where required (for example in organising events) we will rely on Article 9(2)(a) explicit consent Managing the Research Network or Discovery Forum membership where you join a part of an institution We rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interests. We need to manage the relationship with our institutional member appropriately. You should ensure your institution appropriately informs you of the purpose for which they share data with u in the first instance Where required (for example in organising events) we will rely on Article 9(2)(a) explicit consent You are taking part in a public engagement study Description of data useIndividuals who have consented to participate in a Genomics England user study to help u improve service and the customer journey. This could be a an individual participant or representative of an organisation taking part in an independent engagement activity commissioned by Genomics England. What data do we collect?This information will be directly provided by you. We may ask for various type of personal data about you, including: your general and identification information (name, first name, last name, gender and contact details). your function (title, user group i.e., participant, NHS researcher). your electronic identification data where required for the purpose of conducting the research (login, passwords, badge number and picture, IP address, online identifiers/cookies, logs, access and connection times, voice and image recording using Microsoft Teams. Depending on the study we may also ask for some special category data about you which can include ethnicity, health data, disabilities, sexual orientation or religious beliefs. If you intend to provide u with personal data about other individual ( e.g. associates/colleagues), you must provide a copy of this Privacy Notice to the relevant individuals, directly or through your employer, where relevant. Lawful basis For u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) on which to process it. Below are the lawful base we use. Purpose Personal data (Article 6 UK GDPR) Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR) Taking part in user study We rely on Article 6(1)(a) consent We rely on Article 9(2)(a) consent Withdrawing your consentIf you would like to withdraw your consent for u to process your data, email or write to u at the address in the 'contact us' section of this notice. You are a clinician or medical professional What data do we collect? We hold basic personal identifier about you such a name, work telephone number and e-mail address, gender, job title and specialism. If you are also a member of the GECIP you will need to refer to that section of the Privacy Notice a well. What do we do with it? We will use your data within the patient record so: we know who to contact in respect of any finding relating to your patient care. To communicate with you To comply with applicable law and regulation We rely on legitimate interest (Article 6(1) (f)) to process your personal data. Please note that if you access our service using your NHS Care Identity credentials, the identity access and management service are managed by NHS England. NHS England is the controller for any personal information you provided to NHS England to get a national digital identity and authenticate your claim to that identity, and us that personal information solely for that single purpose. For any personal information, our role is a processor only and we must act under the instruction provided by NHS England (as the controller) when verifying your identity. To see NHS Englands Privacy Notice and Terms and Conditions, please click . This restriction doe not apply to the personal information you provide to u separately which is managed in accordance with our Privacy Policy. You have contacted u directly Description of data use You may have joined a mailing list, contacted u via the website or social media, or attended one of our conferences. What data do we collect?When you subscribe to our newsletter, we will collect your name and email address. When you make an enquiry or complaint, we will collect your name and email address a well a any personal data relating to the complaint, for example so that we can identify you in our systems. When you make an application for a copy of your data or any of your other statutory rights, we will collect personal data such a name and title, date of birth, address, email address and what area of the organisation you have dealt with. Lawful basisFor u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) on which to process it. Below are the lawful base we use. PurposePersonal data (Article 6 UK GDPR)Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR)Sending newslettersWe rely on Article 6(1)(a) consentWe do not collect any special category data for this purposeContacting usWe rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interestsWe do not collect any special category data for this purposeContacting u to make a Freedom of Information requestWe rely on Article 6(1)(c) legal obligationWe do not collect any special category data for this purposeWithdrawing your consent If you would like to withdraw your consent for u to process your data, please download and complete our . You can email it to or you can post it to Data Protection Team at the address in the contact u section of this notice. You have applied to work with u Description of data use You may have sent u your CV or applied for a job with us. What data do we collect?We need personal data including name, address, date of birth, nationality, gender and preferred language. We also need CVs, references, record of skill and experience, including job titles, work history, working hours, qualifications, skills, training and other compliance requirement and professional memberships. We also need detail of any disabilities, work restriction and/or required adjustment where we may need to help you work with us. This type of data is referred to a special category data. Why do we need it and what do we with it?We will use your data to ass your application a part of our recruitment process and before we offer a contract of employment to you. How long we keep itWe will only keep your personal data for a long a necessary to fulfil the purpose of the recruitment exercise. Should your application be successful we will transfer your personal data to your personnel file and your personal data will be kept in accordance with our policy and practice for our employees. All profile on our recruitment system will be deleted after one year. Lawful basisFor u to use your data, we must identify a lawful basis in the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) on which to process it. Below are the lawful base we use. PurposePersonal data (Article 6 UK GDPR)Special category data (Article 9 UK GDPR)RecruitmentWe rely on Article 6(1)(b) performance of a contract or entering into a contract Where we take detail of any reasonable adjustment you require, where regard the Equality Act 2010, the lawful basis we rely on for processing this information is article 6(1)(c) to comply with our legal obligation under that Act.We rely on Article 9(2)(b) employment this relates to our responsibility a an employer.Recruitment checksWe rely on Article 6(1)(f) legitimate interest it is in our legitimate interest to ensure nothing in your previous history precludes you from working for u or might put the organisation or other worker at risk from fraud or harmWe rely on Article 9(2)(b) employment this relates to our responsibility a an employer.Who do we share your data with?We use third party to help make the recruitment process a smooth a possible. Any third party with whom we share your personal data will be required to protect it and put in place appropriate technical and security measure in accordance with our instructions. They are required to keep your personal data confidential. Where will my data be held? Genomics England hold all recruitment data in our secure United Kingdom data centres. You are an employee of Genomics England Ltd Your personal data and how we process it Genomics England process your data for a number of reasons: To meet our obligation under the employment contract we have entered into with you, for example, in order to pay you and provide your contractual and non-contractual benefits.To comply with a legal obligation for example, to comply with health and safety requirements.Where it within our legitimate interest provided that we safeguard your fundamental right and interest for example, carrying out appraisal or disciplinary proceedings.Where we refer to legitimate interests, we refer to the interest of Genomics England in being able to carry out it activity and in being able to manage it staff efficiently and effectively. Where we process special category of personal data, we do so on one or more of the following legal bases: The processing is necessary for performing or exercising our obligation or right in connection with your employment contract.The processing is necessary for the purpose of our legitimate interests.Special category data is processed either with your consent or for the purpose of carrying out the obligation and exercising specific right of the controller or of the data subject in the field of employment and social security and social protection law.Type of information Examples Personal detail Name, address, date of birth, nationality, gender, work restrictions. Special category data Ethnicity, sex, health or disability, religious belief and sexual orientation. Individuals are not obliged to answer question in relation to ethnicity, religious belief and sexual orientation. If you choose to share this information, it will be used for data analysis and monitoring purposes. We collect detail of any health condition that have led to absence from work or may mean you need additional support to carry out your role. We need this information to continue to pay you at the appropriate level, provide you with the support you need and to provide contractual and non-contractual benefit such a Death in Service. Contact detail used to contact you at work or home. Telephone number and e-mail addresses. Emergency contact details. Name, address, telephone, e-mail address of your emergency contact and their relationship to you. Information about your recruitment and suitability to work for u and/or a relevant third party. Information included in an application form, CV or covering letter provided a part of an application, references, interview notes, right to work documents, information to identify you such a passport details, records/results of pre-employment check which includes criminal record checks, credit and fraud checks. Information that we need to pay you your salary or expenses. Bank account details, national insurance or social security number (where applicable), payroll records, salary, driving licence, vehicle registration and insurance details, travel loan applications. Information to allow you to access our building and systems.Employee identification number, photographs, video images.Information relating to your performance at work.Appraisal forms, note or recording of 1 to 1 and other meeting or interviews, personal development plans, personal improvement plans, correspondence and reports, appraisal/ disciplinary/ grievance documentation. You have joined u for an event What data do we collect? The personal data we process may include: your title, name, full postal address, email or telephone contact details.your job title and role.dietary needaccessibility needs.For certain event we collect biographical information about you from publicly available source and this may include photographs. This information will be provided to the host(s) to help with the flow of the event.When using video conferencing application such a Zoom or Microsoft Teams, your name, username, email address, your computer IP address, MAC address and device name may be collected. Purposes Genomics England will process your personal data for the following purposes: To reserve a place for you at the event(s) you desire to attend.To provide you with information about the event(s) for which you have registered, that includes event updates, and possible changes, cancellation or similar information.To provide you with information about accessibility, transportation, parking.To fulfil and monitor our legal responsibilities, for example, under public safety legislation.In accordance with your preferences, to communicate with you about other events, news, and opportunities.Lawful basis We ask for your consent to process your personal data for the purpose set out above. Who will the data be shared with? We may share some of the information with external organisation providing service for the event you are attending, in particular we may share your information (including dietary requirements) with catering service if you are attending an event where catering is offered. The information shared will only be used to provide the service required and will not be kept by these external organisation after the event is concluded. Withdrawing your consent If you would like to withdraw your consent for u to process your data email or write to u at the address in the contact u section of this notice. Your right over your data You have a number of right in respect to your data and we explain in more detail what these are below. We will ask for proof of identity when you make a request, we do this to make sure we are processing the correct data for the request. Access to your personal information you may ask u for a copy of the personal information we hold on you this is known a a subject access request. Rectification of your personal information if we hold inaccurate information about you, let u know and we can update it. Erasing your personal information you can ask to have the data we hold on you deleted. This isnt an absolute right, and we have to balance your request against other factor such a legal or regulatory requirements. Restrict processing of your personal information you can ask u to stop using your personal data in certain circumstances. For example, if you have objected to your data being processed where the lawful basis is legitimate interests. Data portability you can ask u to transfer your personal information to a third party of your choice. Right to object you can object to any processing where we rely on legitimate interest to process your data. Automated decision making and profiling you will be informed if we use any automated decision making or profiling and have the right to request human intervention, express your view and challenge the decision. If you wish to make an individual right request, and to help u identify what information you require, and send it to the email address below. We aim to respond to all valid request within one month. It may take u longer if the request is particularly complicated or you have made several requests. Well always let you know if we think a response will take longer than one month. We may not always be able to do what you have asked. This is because your right will not always apply, for example, if it would impact the duty of confidentiality we owe to others, or if the law allows u to deal with the request in a different way. We will always explain to you how we are dealing with your request. More detail on how your data is handled Genomics Englands priority is to ensure that the data of all participant and everyone it deal with is protected and that we are fully compliant with the latest data protection legislation. Who do we share your data with? We may share your personal data, this will only be with third party we use to provide marketing or for the purpose of seeking legal or other professional advice; to respond to a legal request or comply with a legal obligation. Any third party with whom we share your personal data will be required to protect it and put in place appropriate technical and security measure in accordance with our instructions. They are required to keep your personal data confidential. Where will my data be held? Genomics England hold all health and genomic data in our secure United Kingdom data centres. Occasionally we may transfer your personal information outside the European Economic Area (EEA). For any supplier we use overseas we will always conduct due diligence and ensure the appropriate safeguard are in place to protect your data. How long do we keep your data? We will only keep your personal data for a long a necessary, you can ask u for more information. Contacting u Genomics England ha appointed a Data Protection Officer who can be contacted at the address below: The Data Protection OfficerGenomics England LimitedOne Canada SquareLondonE14 5AB If you have any other question about how we process your data please contact the Data Protection Team using the email below. Complaints to the Information Commissioner You also have the right to complain to the UK Information Commissioner if you dont feel we are using your data in line with your rights, or if you feel we havent dealt with your request properly. Please come to Genomics England in the first instance to give u a chance to respond and resolve your query. You can contact the ICO on their website using the link below or via their helpline at 0303 123 1113. Updates to our privacy notice Our privacy notice are regularly updated and each will have a valid from date at the top. Explore Genomics England Patients and Participants About u News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search How we use cooky How we use cooky How we use cooky When someone visit our website, we may collect a few bit of information and store them in file called cookies. This page outline how we use cooky across our site. Use of cooky on our website Our site us a few cooky but none of them reveal any personal information about you a a viewer and we dont use any information from the cooky for anything other than identifying how people are using our website. If you tick the continue box in our cookie warning, or continue to use the website you are agreeing to the use of cookies. About cooky Cookies are small text file that are placed on your computer by website that you visit. They are widely used in order to make website work, or work more efficiently, a well a to provide information to the owner of the site. Most web browser allow some control of most cooky through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cooky have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit (opens in new tab). Videos We embed video from our and from . These may also set cooky on your computer if you visit page with embedded videos. To find out more please visit s privacy pages. (Links open in new tabs.) Explore Genomics England About u About u Careers Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved. This website us cooky We use cooky to personalize content and to analyze our traffic and improve our website. Necessary (Required) These cooky help the website function properly. They include cooky for access to secure area and CSRF security. They don't collect any personal or sensitive information, including IP addresses. Any information they store is not sent to any 3rd parties. Name: WebsiteSessionId Description: This website relies on session to maintain data across web requests. That is done through the use of a session cookie. This website name that cookie WebsiteSessionId. This cookie will expire a soon a the session expires. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Name: *_identity Description: If and when you log into this website, you will get an authentication cookie used to maintain your authenticated state. The cookie name is prefixed with a long, randomly generated string, followed by _identity. The cookie only store information necessary to maintain a secure, authenticated session and will only exist for a long a the user is authenticated on this website. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: *_username Description: If you check the "Keep me logged in" option during login, this cookie is used to remember the username for your next authentication. Provider: this site Expiry: Persistent Name: WEBSITE_CSRF_TOKEN Description: Protects u and you a a user against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. Provider: this site Expiry: Session Statistics We collect data on the user navigation and behaviour on our website. These are known a analytic cookies. This data is used to compile statistical report and heatmaps to improve the usability and layout of the site. None of the information from statistical cooky can be used to identify a user. It is all aggregated and therefore anonymised. Their sole purpose is to improve website functionality. Marketing These cooky are used to help prevent you from seeing irrelevant advertising. They are used to show you Genomics England content when you visit other website based on what youve browsed, searched for, or bought. Save OK Genomic Medicine Our Initiatives Patients and Participants Research and Partnerships News and Events About Us Close What are you looking for Type here to search Freedom of information publication scheme Freedom of information publication scheme Freedom of information publication scheme This page explains what information Genomics England make routinely available, that fall under this guidance, and how it can be accessed. About the Freedom of Information publication scheme As a public authority we are obliged under the Freedom of Information Act to provide detail of our routinely available information. We publish this information in accordance with the guidance a issued by the . The Publication Scheme contains seven class of information. Information falling into each of these class is below: Who we are and what we do How we work What are our priority and how we are doing How we make decision Our policy and procedure What we spend and how we spend it Services we offer Freedom of Information Act At present, all the information we proactively release is available free of charge on our website. If in the future, we make information available but do not publish it on our website we will update this publication scheme to explain how you can access it. We will also explain any charge that may be necessary. Charges made by Genomics England for routinely published material will be justified and transparent and kept to a minimum. Charges may be made for information subject to a charging regime specified by Parliament. Charges may be made for actual disbursement incurred such as: photocopyingpostage and packagingthe cost directly incurred a a result of viewing information.Charges may also be made for information provided under this scheme where they are legally authorised, they are in all the circumstances, including the general principle of the right of access to information held by public authorities, justified and are in accordance with a published schedule or schedule of fee which is readily available to the public. Charges may also be made for making datasets (or part of datasets) that are relevant copyright work available for re-use. These charge will be in accordance with either regulation made under section 11B of the Freedom of Information Act or other enactments. Information held by a public authority that is not published under this scheme can be requested in writing, when it provision will be considered in accordance with the provision of the Freedom of Information Act. Freedom of Information (FOI) Releases 20 Feb 23 - Contact with tobacco company 09 Feb 23 - Illumina contract 28 Jan 23 - ELT salary 6 Jan 23 - ELT expense 7 Nov 22 - Access Review Committee application 30 Sep 22 - Org structure under CIO and CDO 12 Sep 22 - Diversity spend 14 Jun 22 - Procurement of IT contract 14 June 22 - Procurement for office move to Canary Wharf 6 Jun 22 - Protection of digital health data 11 Apr 22 - Newborn sequencing number 21 Jun 21 - Data sharing policy 10 July 19 Complaints about ELT 2 May 19 Data security 1 May 19 Staff employed by consultant 15 Apr 19 IT hardware 3 Apr 19 Subject access request 2 Apr 19 ELT salary 2 Apr 19 Current workforce 16 Feb 19 Work visa sponsorship 13 Feb 19 Organisation chart and staff salary 29 Jan 19 Genomics England IQVIA agreement 21 Dec 17 Number of result returned 25 July 17 Data access, security and privacy 09 May 17 Meetings with Google and 23andMe 05 June 17 Finance System 03 March 16 Tender for Interpretation Services 06 October 16 Haemochromatosis 13 Nov 15 Infrastructure spending Explore Genomics England Genomic Healthcare About u News and Events Email u at Our Registered Office: Genomics England Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AB Follow u 2024 Genomics England. All right reserved.