Based on the decision of citizens, health data will be implemented in a legitimized, open and federated dataLOFT Platform and made accessible according to Gaia-X standards. English The future of healthcare 0 Partners A broad-based consortium of research, supply, and industry are colaboratingtogether at the data LOFT platform. 0 Work Packages The work package turn the project into manageable subaspects which implement our solution under the management of various partners. 0 Use Cases The use case are the key requirement for our platform, a they develop and define the need and concern of citizens, patients, and service providers. VISION/MISSION Secure digitization of health data Future healthcare will increasingly rely on secure data networking across multiple sectors. Today, data from primary health care, such a hospital and doctors' offices, are securely stored there. However, it usually still experience a low level of digitization and is rarely shared and integrated across the boundary of facility and sectors. With the electronic patient file (ePA) and the Medical Informatics Initiative (MII), the German Federal Ministries BMG and BMBF have launched pioneering concept to break through the isolation of data and enable their linkage. VISION/MISSION Sovereignty over personal health data In the secondary health care market, personal health data such a vitality data are becoming more and more important due to a variety of different consumer devices. Compared to clinical data, these data, such a information on step count or sleep rhythm, provide a continuous picture of personal health, collected under everyday condition and potentially available over many year and decades. In this way, they differ from clinical assessments, which are generally more precise but are collected only at very specific point in time and at great expense. Therefore, in combination with clinical health data, they offer huge potential for healthcare, from prevention to intervention to follow-up. However, in a digital market of health tracking device dominated by international companies, the right to the data and the analysis of the data are mostly outside Europe there is a threat of a massive sell-out of German or European health data, a ha already taken place in the social medium sector. HEALTH-X dataLOFT Plattform The approach aim to put citizen at the center of consideration for the provision, the use case a well a their control of sharing or keeping their own health data from the two health markets. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM What is dataLOFT? Based on the decision of citizens, health data will be implemented in a legitimized, open, and federated dataLOFT platform and made accessible in compliance with Gaia-X standards. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Putting the patient first Unlike existing offers, our data room will be citizen/patient centric: Citizens/patients will have access to and control over their personal health data, regardless of it origin. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Multiple Use Cases Our Use Cases are use case from the first and second health care market, which offer citizens/patients an improvement in preventive care and during treatment. Furthermore, they provide the opportunity to participate in research projects. Innovation Hub In the Innovation Hub, we will establish additional use case thoughout the project to test the dataLOFT platform for it promise of adding value for citizen and patient and to develop innovative business model in the primary and secondary healthcare markets. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Transparent access and control In contrast to the classic offers, the possibility is offered from the outset that customer have transparent access to and control over the collected manufacturer-independent data, and can thus also be incorporated into regulated health research and health care. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT you change from a simple beneficiary of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who is allowed to use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF BIH CENTER OF DIGITAL HEALTH Partners Our partner Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English HEALTH X dataLOFT Platform Our approach aim to put citizen at the center of the distribution, use, and control of their own health data from the two health markets. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM What is dataLOFT? Based on the decision of citizens, health data will be implemented in a legitimized, open and federated dataLOFT Platform and made accessible according to Gaia-X standards. The data platform and integrated service which are to be developed shall enable the individual use of data and develop individual business model for the German-European health industry. The objective is to develop transparent cloud-based application in the healthcare market with leading representative in highly relevant area of healthcare. For the networking of health care area and the integrative use of data, the concept of the MII for data exchange across the border of institution and location a well a legally binding Gematik standard and solution of the telematics infrastructure will be integrated. Central to HEALTH-X are the new economic business model that result from the data sovereignty of citizen and patient a donor of health data and from the linking of data area that were previously predominantly separate and could not be jointly evaluated. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Putting the patient first Unlike existing offerings, our data room will be citizen/patient centric: Citizens/patients will have access to and control over their personal health data, regardless of it origin. In this way, these data can be made available for personal health concerns, medical care and research based on self-determined legitimization by the citizens/patients themselves. Complementary to the existing classic offering in vendor-bound silos, we are developing a vendor-neutral platform to enable access to and integration of data from the first and second health markets. This platform enables new usage approach and business model for device manufacturers, service providers, and clinical care providers. This new ecosystem is open, federated, and based on the standard being developed under the Gaia-X project. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Diverse Use Cases Our Use Cases are from the first and second health markets, which offer citizens/patients an improvement in preventive care and during treatment, a well a the possibility to participate in research projects. Innovation Hub In the course of the project, we will establish further Use Cases in the Innovation Hub, with which the dataLOFT platform will be tested for it promise of benefit for citizen and patient a well a for the development of innovative business model in the first and second health market. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Transparent access and control In contrast to the classic offers, the possibility is offered from the outset for customer to have transparent access to and control over the collected manufacturer-independent data, which can then also be used in regulated health research and health care. A protected, personally designed data room concept is used for this purpose. Based on the personal data room with a consistently designed consent concept from the first recording of health data and using Gaia-X Federated Services, a transparent linking and use of health data is made possible in a way that is not possible today. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT you change from a simple beneficiary of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who is allowed to use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF BIH CENTER OF DIGITAL HEALTH Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Work Packages WP1 Establishing of Cloud Structures Goal: Goal: Establish a Gaia-X compliant cloud infrastructure a the basis for linking ePA, clinical, and personal health data.In WP1, we will develop the cloud for dataLOFT-compliant processing of data from personal smart health devices, define the necessary interface for Gaia-X interoperability of data offering based on Gaia-X compliant standards, Gaia-X Federation Services, and IDSA connector technology, and develop and test operating model for this platform.Deliverables/Outcome*: Technical design sketch of cloud infrastructure (M1, M4) Implementation plan for creating Gaia-X compliance and interoperability (M5).WP1 is led by the collaborative partner IONOS SE. WP2 GAIA-X Technology Stack Goal: Build the Gaia-X technology stack for data sovereign indexing and linking. In WP2, concept for the further development of Gaia-X-compliant implementation of IDSA technology will be developed and implemented. In particular, compliance, implementation of secure computing technologies, ID management, data trustee, and Gaia-X-compliant self-descriptions of these service and property will be addressed.Results /*: ID management system & data trusteeship for identity and trust, IDSA technology implemented for DSS, SGX implemented in IDSA; Federated Catalogue self-description for Gaia-X Federation Services (M7).WP2 is led by the collaborative partner Bundesdruckerei. WP3 Data space of the primary and secondary health sector. Goal: Data space of the primary and secondary health sector by secureley connecting the infrastructure built in WP1 based on the technological concept developed in WP2. In WP3 we define the interaction and process between the component of the health data space developed in AP3: consent management according to IDSA Metadata Broker, data discovery according to Gaia-X Federated Catalogue, implementation of the regulatory framework from UWP7.1, analysis of the interface of the data wallet app to the different data provider (WP3) and use case (WP5), design and development of the data wallet app taking into account the end user view based on patient forum (UWP7.3), analysis of the expression of the corresponding standard of the Gaia-X Health domain, development of process control for use case class specific distributed process to map data processing and communicating activity while maintaining personal data sovereignty between the involved actors. Deliverables: appropriate Gaia-X connector adapted (M10); semantic interoperable data space based on clinical standard FHIR, Snomed-CT, IHE, and clinical data flow and Gaia-X interface integrated into application (M10).WP3 is led by the collaborative partner SVA System Vertrieb Alexander GmbH. WP4 Citizen-Centric Data Access Goal: Development of the data wallet app for citizen-centric data access and integration based on the Gaia-X compliant IDS technology stack and orchestration of application case specific distributed process.In WP4, we are developing the data wallet app, the core component of the HEALTH-X dataLOFT health data platform, with which patient and citizen can act autonomously in the first and second healthcare markets. Through the data wallet app, they discover their data and make it available to the various provider in HEALTH-X dataLOFT for specific purpose and occasions. The data wallet app is the central control tool for the HEALTH-X dataLOFT platform.Results Data wallet a a technical solution concept for process-based interaction and connection to the different data domains; extension of IDSA technology to support use case class specific distributed process (M11), data wallet app including notification stack for end users.WP4 is lead by the collaborative partner Frauhofer ISST. WP5 Use Cases Goal: Develop feasible and relevant use case that demonstrate the potential of Gaia-X to improve healthcare and implement selected demonstrators.The goal of work package 5 is to develop four feasible and relevant use case that demonstrate the potential of Gaia-X to improve healthcare: Self-determined everyday health, clinical companion, personalized healthcare services, and secondary use of data. Selected demonstrator will also be implemented for the use cases. The development of the use case will follow a user-centered process with the development of user journeys, collaboration with clinic and operators, and the involvement of end user in patient forums.Results: Detailed description of 4 use case (Self-Determined Everyday Health; Clinical Companion; Personalized Health Services; Secondary Use of Data) including societal added value, the benefit of Gaia-X in implementation and implementation plan (M8), evaluation and implementation of selected demonstrator (M14).WP5 is led by the collaborative partner OFFIS. WP6 Business Models Goal: Develop feasible and sustainable business model beyond the scope of the project based on technological development from WP 1-4 and use case in WP5.In WP6, we define operator model and business model for the economic and social utilization of the developed technology from WP1-WP3, for the data wallet app (WP4), and the use case from WP5. In an agile process, we involve the stakeholder board, patient forum a well a member of relevant ecosystem - for example, startup via innovation forum - in the development and use of new concepts. We initiate agile real lab in which we iteratively test and concretize our concept with a focus on citizen and patient associations.Results: Initial conceptual design of operator model (M1, M2); interim planning status & testing of agile iterative exploitation planning (M9a-c); operator models, platform vision & exploitation scenario of economic partner concretized (M12); selected demonstrator realized (M14).WP6 is led by the collaborative partner FU Berlin. WP7 Cross-Work Package Activities Goal: Consideration of ELSI, reference to end-user perspective and clear target architecture for the project.In WP7 we create a definition of the target architecture of the dataLOFT platform considering ethical, legal, and societal aspect and implication (ELSI). Through stakeholder board and regular iterative work on the target architecture, we operate the requirement management for WP1-WP4. Results: Definition of target architecture (M1); clarification and a better understanding of regulatory framework (M2 & M12), consideration of end-user perspective.WP7 is led by the collaborative partner Charit - Universittsmedizin Berlin. AP8 Project Management PMO Goal: Coordination of consortium partner and work package for timely implementation of the project.In AP8 we coordinate the overall project. We organize regular coordination meetings, prepare reports, are responsible for financial reporting, track project progress, take care of internal, and external communication via website and social media, staff, and manage stakeholder board and patient forums.Deliverables: Consortium meetings, external outreach; annual progress reports.WP8 is led by the consortium partner Charit - Universittsmedizin Berlin. WP9 Clearinghouse Interoperability Goal: Ensure interoperability of the system and interface developed in the various WPs.In WP9, we are working with WP7 and WP8 to ensure, in the spirit of project success, that the technical solution not only meet regulatory requirement and formally fulfill their requirements, but are also suitable in their entirety to represent the HEALTH-X dataLOFT platform by the interlocking interoperable technologies.Results: Interoperability of interfaces, documentation of interfaces, and processes.WP9 is led by the collaborative partner Charit - Universittsmedizin Berlin. Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Governance ORGANIZATION Well organized right from the start In addition to the work package in which the content work is carried out, the HEALTH-X dataLOFT project is organized into various organizational subgroups, which are described below. ORGANIZATION Coordination and consortium management The overall coordination of the HEALTH-X project is the responsibility of Prof. Roland Eils, founding director of the BIH Center for Digital Health at the Charit - Universittsmedizin Berlin. Charit is responsible for the project management and clearinghouse of the project. In addition to it expertise in MII concepts, the BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit also contributes knowledge and experience in the implementation of large project with many partner to the HEALTH-X dataLOFT project, a well a from it deNBI cloud established for health research at the Charit. ORGANIZATION Governance Structure "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT, you go from being a simple recipient of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who may use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR BIH CENTER DIGITAL HEALTH ORGANIZATION Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board act a an advisory and supporting controlling body. It is composed of representative from science, politics, research, and industry. ORGANIZATION Steering Committee The Steering Committee is composed of representative of all funded partner and is the highest management level of the project. It is the final decision maker and responsible for the overall success of the project. Technical Board The approach aim to put citizen at the center of the provision, use a well a control of their own health data from the two health market GOVERNANCE Regulatory Coordination and Use Case Board Regulatory Coordination and Use Case Board are directed by and report to the Technical Board. GOVERNANCE Operator panel and innovation forum Operator panel and innovation forum ensure exchange with operator of data-based service and infrastructure and developer of new use case and business models. GOVERNANCE Stakeholder Board The Stakeholder Advisory Board is composed of patient associations, industry, research, and interested citizens. It ensures that project-related and overriding interest that affect the project are known and can be considered in the project. Do you still have questions? Our website can of course only give you a rough overview of the HEALTH-X dataLOFT project. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Partners Funded Partners The funded partner are the primary contributor to the project. They lead the work package and develop concepts, solutions, and operator and business model based on our use cases. SPONSORED PARTNERS Charit - University Medicine Berlin The mission of the Berlin Institute of Health at Charit (BIH) is a medical translation: finding from biomedical research are translated into new approach for personalized prediction, prevention, diagnostics, and therapy; inversely, observation in everyday clinical practice lead to new research ideas. The goal of the approximately 400 scientist is to achieve a relevant medical benefit for patient and citizens. To reach this goal, BIH, a a translational research unit at Charit, establishes a comprehensive translational ecosystem, focus on a cross-organ understanding of health and disease, and promotes a translational cultural change in biomedical research. BIH wa founded in 2013 and funded 90 %by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) and10% by the State of Berlin. The founding institution Charit - Universittsmedizin Berlin and Max Delbrck Center for Molecular Medicine in the Helmholtz Association (MDC) were independent affiliate in BIH until 2020. Since 2021, the BIH wa integrated into the Charit a a third pillar, a a translational research area of the Charit; the MDC is a Privileged Partner of the BIH. Sponsored Partners Bundesdruckerei GmbH Bundesdruckerei GmbH is a leading German high-tech security company headquartered in Berlin. It protects identity and data with innovative solutions, products, and technology "Made in Germany". In this way, it creates trust and legal security in the digital society - and enables sovereign action by states, companies, and citizen in the analog and digital worlds. As a member of the Bundesdruckerei Group and with over 250 year of experience, the company is paving the way to a secure digital future. Sponsored Partners Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft for the Promotion of Applied Research e.V. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft is the largest organization for applied research in Europe. The research focus of the Fraunhofer Institute for Software and Systems Engineering ISST is the development of technologies, processes, and system for data-centric business solutions. The Fraunhofer Institute for Digital Medicine MEVIS develops interactive system for everyday work in clinical environments. Fraunhofer support the development of the dataLOFT data space for the first and second health sector by developing and extending basic technology a well a networking architecture layers. In doing so, the conception and realization of the professional use case are supported by the appropriate integration of information from imaging procedures. Sponsored Partners Freie Universitt Berlin Freie Universitt Berlin is one of the three full university in Berlin. It is one of the few German university to have been successful three time in the Excellence Competition of the German federal and state governments. Since 2019, the FU ha received permanent funding a part of the Berlin University Alliance under the Excellence Strategy. In doing so, it address it research in eleven department and four central institute in particular on socially relevant topic that are also the subject of successful transfer and translation activities. For years, the FU Berlin ha been one of the top German university with the most science-related start-ups. Sponsored Partners Hasso Plattner Institute for Digital Engineering GmbH In the project, the Hasso Plattner Institute (HPI) is leading the development of the use case "Personalized Health Services" and "Secondary Use of Data". Here, citizen-centered application will be designed, implemented, and scientifically evaluated. HPI is the university competence center for digital engineering in Germany. Together with international partners, HPI establishes application in Digital Health a it contribution to the digital transformation in healthcare and society. The HPI Digital Health Center - Chair of Personalized Medicine of Prof. Dr. Erwin Bttinger is shaping the future of medicine with pioneering development for data-driven personalized health services. Sponsored Partners International Data Spaces e. V. The work of the IDSA is guided by the development of the Gaia-X technology stack for data sovereign indexing and linking of data. The International Data Spaces Association ha developed a reference architecture that provides the foundation for data ecosystem and marketplace based on European values, i.e., privacy and security. Sponsored Partners IONOS SE IONOS is the leading European provider of cloud infrastructure, cloud service and hosting service with more than eight and a half million customers. The product portfolio offer everything company need to be successful in the cloud: from domain to classic website and Do-It-Yourself solutions, online marketing tool to full-fledged servers, and an IaaS solution. The offering is aimed at freelancers, professionals, and consumers, a well a enterprise customer with complex IT requirements. Sponsored Partners Space Technologies GmbH Medisana GmbH ha been operating in the home healthcare market for 30 year and is now one of the leading specialist in healthcare in Germany. For around 10 years, Medisana GmbH and it fully owned subsidiary Space Technologies GmbH have been dedicated to Digital Health with around 100 employees. In doing so, it develops and sell innovative medical and lifestyle product for the home healthcare market and operates a successful combination of measuring devices, mobile applications, and an online health platform with over 1 million registered customers. Sponsored Partners OFFIS e.V. The OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, founded in 1991 a an affiliated institute of the University of Oldenburg, research new form of computer-based information processing in hardware and software system and implement the result in application-oriented developments. OFFIS ha been working for many year in the field of society with innovative, interactive, technology-based solutions, and system for a self-determined and healthy life. In this context, suitability for everyday use and applicability from the user's point of view a well a economic efficiency and usability are of particular importance. Sponsored Partners polypoly Enterprise GmbH polypoly is responsible for the implementation of user-centric data access. Outside of the project, polypoly is building a new and revolutionary economic system for data, which especially through it decentralized approach enables the use of data without violating personal rights. Sponsored Partners Siemens Healthcare GmbH As the world's leading medical technology company, Siemens Healthineers offer product and solution that help physicians, medical staff, and healthcare provider to prevent disease and determine the right diagnosis and treatment for people who are ill. Every hour, more than 240,000 patient worldwide come into contact with Siemens Healthineers technology. Together with our clinical and academic collaboration partners, we create innovation - through solution that make diagnosis and therapy faster and more precise and enable personalized medicine. Siemens Healthineers AG (SHS AG) is the parent company of several businesses. Siemens Healthcare GmbH, a a fully owned subsidiary of SHS AG, comprises the operational business in Germany, with all service that are part of the funding project. Sponsored Partners SVA System Vertrieb Alexander GmbH SVA System Vertrieb Alexander GmbH is one of the leading German system integrators. The company, headquartered in Wiesbaden, Germany, wa founded in 1997 and today employ more than 2,000 people at 26 site in Germany. In the dataLOFT project, SVA will contribute it expertise in IT consulting, interface definition and setup of IT infrastructure a well a project management. Furthermore, SVA will centrally contribute the platform "medPower", of the 100% subsidiary WZAT (Westdeutsches Zentrum fr angewandte Telemedizin). Sponsored Partners TMF Technologie- und Methodenplattform fr die vernetzte medizinische Forschung e.V. The TMF stand for research, networking, and digitization in medicine. It is the umbrella organization for collaborative medical research in Germany, where top researcher exchange knowledge, jointly develop idea and concepts, and shape the future of medical research in the digital age. Sponsored Partners Significo Health GmbH Significo Health GmbH is one of the leading German provider of data-driven, user-centric solution for health maintenance. We are an interdisciplinary team convinced that our product put people at the center of healthcare. We have set out with scientific partner and customer to change today's traditional healthcare system, where people are treated a number rather than individual with unique need and potential. We want to motivate and empower people to proactively take charge of and positively influence their own health. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT, you go from being a simple recipient of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who may use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR BIH CENTER DIGITAL HEALTH Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Use Cases USE CASES Hidden potential - our health data enables new business model HEALTH-X dataLOFT demonstrates in four use case the opportunity that arise from combining healthcare data from the primary and secondary healthcare markets. This creates completely new business models. The Use Cases address socially highly relevant question about strengthening the role of citizens, health prevention, healthy aging, and clinical care, where the core question of who finance the "therapy of the healthy" find new answer in presented B2P and B2C models. dataLOFT achieves high visibility and broad impact in Germany and Europe through the solution presented. USE CASE 1 Self-determined everyday health With the increasing popularity of wearables, fitness wristbands, smartwatches, sport watches, networked scales, health apps, and many more, the casual monitoring of many parameter of the own health ha become commonplace over many years, even for healthy people. The aim of Use Case 1 is to make the treasury of data from all these device available for prevention and health maintenance, for healthy aging in everyday life, and medical diagnostics and therapy. By connecting and networking long-term self-tracking in everyday life, medical device-specific relevant data from the primary health care market (e.g., from implants), and ePA data, new health service will be enabled and made fundable by the statutory health insurance system. For manufacturer of self-tracking devices, the secondary use of tracking data open up new business area not only in the secondary health markets, but also in the primary health market, which is difficult for them to reach today. Financing is possible a both individual service privately and a prevention, care or bonus offer from the health insurance funds. Direct monetization (e.g., a DiGA, DiPA, or DiVA, possibly with private co-payment in premium models), a well a indirect monetization (e.g., through X-as-a-Service model and study design), is conceivable through the provider of new health services, who act a trusted intermediary between end customers, device manufacturers, and smart service providers. USE CASE 2 Clinical Accompaniment Here, prototypical oncological treatment scenario are developed based on the ePA and it connected dataLOFT data area and services. The interdisciplinary and intersectoral care of cancer patient requires a comprehensive collection and linking of diagnostic and clinical data, which will be supplemented in the future by the integration of patient-centered sensor technology and home-ambulatory monitoring. The cross-sector integration and analysis of these data using certified AI method open up new opportunity for individualized patient education ("shared decision-making") and personalized therapy recommendations. The integration of Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) and Patient-Reported Experiences (PREs) will provide important complement to standard outcome measure in the clinic. Of central importance is the integration of large-volume image data from radiology and pathology, which - linked to ePA finding and Patient-Reported Outcomes - will significantly improve patient care and can be fed into the application of AI-based tools. These improvement in patient care will allow funding of such use case by health insurer in different B2P models, either a part of standard care or selectively a a DiVA of a SHI. USE CASE 3 Personalized health service HEALTH-X dataLOFT enables the linking of the different data domain after data is released by the citizen for services, such a the AI-based assistant a an adaptive, personalized system for a variety of specific concrete applications. These include, for example, checking the compatibility of medication based on personal genetic background, the prevention or treatment of back pain, and a planned in the Gaia-X use case "Smart Health Connect", the early detection of acute health problem in the case of cardiovascular disease. USE CASE 4 Secondary use of data Linking longitudinal everyday data with clinical and diagnostic data hold significant potential for disease understanding, prevention, and personalized health. Here, we demonstrate how the concept of dataLOFT will allow citizen to donate selected clinical and image data to selected research infrastructure in pseudonymized or anonymized form. For image data, a data minimization tool developed for selected clinical data donation is used. A mobile data donation app will be provided, with full integration of consent granting, customization, and revocation function via the dataLOFT Data Wallet. Other functionality relate to pseudonymization, harmonization, and transfer of highly diverse health data, a well a the provision of clinical image data from radiology, and pathology to the clinical data area of dataLOFT. The exploitation of the app and the data donation service will involve Gaia-X IAM service in different B2B models. The application will be offered to research data platforms, for example, a a function-as-a-service with optional customization and training. Infrastructures developed in this use case will also be evaluated in dataLOFT for exploratory project of our partner for innovative analysis and as-a-service offerings. HEALTH-XUse Cases Other significant exploitation opportunity arise from the component and infrastructure used across several of the previously mentioned use case and potentially in future dataLOFT application a well a in other Gaia-X domains. USE CASE General Use and Exploitation Further significant exploitation opportunity arise from the component and infrastructure that areused across several of the aforementioned use case and potentially in future dataLOFT applicationsas well a in other Gaia-X domains: Bundesdruckerei provides the ID management and data trust service a a B2B service and infrastructure component. This component will initially be implemented a a free basic and infrastructure service. The provision a fee-based, individually adaptable B2B additional services, paid by third-party providers, e.g. a a "white label solution", is an example of further options. Part of the dataLOFT platform is a federated infrastructure to enable citizen to manage all their own personal data. This is where B2B service are created, in which company are given development know-how and access to the infrastructure. The use of connector technology enables the connection of diagnostic patient data collected in the clinical setting through research, development, and deployment of a secure, Gaia-X compliant platform. Interfaces allow basic access to data from the ePA and prepare this information according to the patient's wish for new patient and doctor portals. A special feature of our concept is that we can use the tool of the HEALTH-X Innovation Hub to respond to new requirement and need of citizen and the market in an agile manner by introducing new concepts, development and product in HEALTH-X into the to integrate the overall concept. In this way we ensure that the consortium can react flexibly to new development in the extended HEALTH-X community. The governance and financing structure allows u to react flexibly here by consistently using the stakeholder board and the HEALTH-X General Assembly. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT you change from a simple beneficiary of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who is allowed to use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF BIH CENTER OF DIGITAL HEALTH Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Milestones The progress of the project is structured into 16 milesontes and is continuously monitored. We start with the definition of the target architecture and operator models, define the legal framework, build the necessary IT infrastructures, define interface for interoperability, develop prototypes, adapt Gaia-X technologies, develop and implement use cases, and end with a functional HEALTH-X dataLOFT platform that ha proven it viability based on our use case demonstrator and the contribution from the innovation forums. MILESTONES Overview Milestone Month Description M1 6 Technical target architecture defined and initial concept operator model created M2 6 Legal framework for data access (especially ePA) and operator model clarified M3 9 Initial concept for data wallet app created in preparation for alpha prototype M4 9 Establishment of smart wearable data area completed M5 12 Implementation plan for creating interoperability of data domain finalized M6 15 Alpha prototype of the Data Wallet app made available to first tester M7 18 IDS connectors, SGX technology and ID management system developed M8 18 Implementation plan for 4 use case developed in detail M9a 21 Initial definition of operator model for AP1-3 (agile concretization in the further course of the project) M9b 24 Initial definition of operator model for WP5 (agile concretization in the further course of the project) M10 24 Technical interoperability & Gaia-X compliance of data domain ensured & data domain linked by IDS connector M11 24 Technological solution concept (interaction with system and end users) for citizen-centric data access (data wallet app) finalized based on development and prototype M9c 27 Initial definition of operator model for AP4 (agile concretization in the further course of the project) M12 30 Operator model defined and legal requirement clarified M13 36 Citizen-centric data access (data wallet app) accessible to broad population M14 36 Selected demonstrator of use case and business model implemented Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English News Health-X dataLoft Updates, News, Events Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English HEALTH X dataLOFT Platform Our approach aim to put citizen at the center of the distribution, use, and control of their own health data from the two health markets. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM What is dataLOFT? Based on the decision of citizens, health data will be implemented in a legitimized, open and federated dataLOFT Platform and made accessible according to Gaia-X standards. The data platform and integrated service which are to be developed shall enable the individual use of data and develop individual business model for the German-European health industry. The objective is to develop transparent cloud-based application in the healthcare market with leading representative in highly relevant area of healthcare. For the networking of health care area and the integrative use of data, the concept of the MII for data exchange across the border of institution and location a well a legally binding Gematik standard and solution of the telematics infrastructure will be integrated. Central to HEALTH-X are the new economic business model that result from the data sovereignty of citizen and patient a donor of health data and from the linking of data area that were previously predominantly separate and could not be jointly evaluated. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Putting the patient first Unlike existing offerings, our data room will be citizen/patient centric: Citizens/patients will have access to and control over their personal health data, regardless of it origin. In this way, these data can be made available for personal health concerns, medical care and research based on self-determined legitimization by the citizens/patients themselves. Complementary to the existing classic offering in vendor-bound silos, we are developing a vendor-neutral platform to enable access to and integration of data from the first and second health markets. This platform enables new usage approach and business model for device manufacturers, service providers, and clinical care providers. This new ecosystem is open, federated, and based on the standard being developed under the Gaia-X project. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Diverse Use Cases Our Use Cases are from the first and second health markets, which offer citizens/patients an improvement in preventive care and during treatment, a well a the possibility to participate in research projects. Innovation Hub In the course of the project, we will establish further Use Cases in the Innovation Hub, with which the dataLOFT platform will be tested for it promise of benefit for citizen and patient a well a for the development of innovative business model in the first and second health market. HEALTHX dataLOFT PLATFORM Transparent access and control In contrast to the classic offers, the possibility is offered from the outset for customer to have transparent access to and control over the collected manufacturer-independent data, which can then also be used in regulated health research and health care. A protected, personally designed data room concept is used for this purpose. Based on the personal data room with a consistently designed consent concept from the first recording of health data and using Gaia-X Federated Services, a transparent linking and use of health data is made possible in a way that is not possible today. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT you change from a simple beneficiary of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who is allowed to use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF BIH CENTER OF DIGITAL HEALTH Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Use Cases USE CASES Hidden potential - our health data enables new business model HEALTH-X dataLOFT demonstrates in four use case the opportunity that arise from combining healthcare data from the primary and secondary healthcare markets. This creates completely new business models. The Use Cases address socially highly relevant question about strengthening the role of citizens, health prevention, healthy aging, and clinical care, where the core question of who finance the "therapy of the healthy" find new answer in presented B2P and B2C models. dataLOFT achieves high visibility and broad impact in Germany and Europe through the solution presented. USE CASE 1 Self-determined everyday health With the increasing popularity of wearables, fitness wristbands, smartwatches, sport watches, networked scales, health apps, and many more, the casual monitoring of many parameter of the own health ha become commonplace over many years, even for healthy people. The aim of Use Case 1 is to make the treasury of data from all these device available for prevention and health maintenance, for healthy aging in everyday life, and medical diagnostics and therapy. By connecting and networking long-term self-tracking in everyday life, medical device-specific relevant data from the primary health care market (e.g., from implants), and ePA data, new health service will be enabled and made fundable by the statutory health insurance system. For manufacturer of self-tracking devices, the secondary use of tracking data open up new business area not only in the secondary health markets, but also in the primary health market, which is difficult for them to reach today. Financing is possible a both individual service privately and a prevention, care or bonus offer from the health insurance funds. Direct monetization (e.g., a DiGA, DiPA, or DiVA, possibly with private co-payment in premium models), a well a indirect monetization (e.g., through X-as-a-Service model and study design), is conceivable through the provider of new health services, who act a trusted intermediary between end customers, device manufacturers, and smart service providers. USE CASE 2 Clinical Accompaniment Here, prototypical oncological treatment scenario are developed based on the ePA and it connected dataLOFT data area and services. The interdisciplinary and intersectoral care of cancer patient requires a comprehensive collection and linking of diagnostic and clinical data, which will be supplemented in the future by the integration of patient-centered sensor technology and home-ambulatory monitoring. The cross-sector integration and analysis of these data using certified AI method open up new opportunity for individualized patient education ("shared decision-making") and personalized therapy recommendations. The integration of Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) and Patient-Reported Experiences (PREs) will provide important complement to standard outcome measure in the clinic. Of central importance is the integration of large-volume image data from radiology and pathology, which - linked to ePA finding and Patient-Reported Outcomes - will significantly improve patient care and can be fed into the application of AI-based tools. These improvement in patient care will allow funding of such use case by health insurer in different B2P models, either a part of standard care or selectively a a DiVA of a SHI. USE CASE 3 Personalized health service HEALTH-X dataLOFT enables the linking of the different data domain after data is released by the citizen for services, such a the AI-based assistant a an adaptive, personalized system for a variety of specific concrete applications. These include, for example, checking the compatibility of medication based on personal genetic background, the prevention or treatment of back pain, and a planned in the Gaia-X use case "Smart Health Connect", the early detection of acute health problem in the case of cardiovascular disease. USE CASE 4 Secondary use of data Linking longitudinal everyday data with clinical and diagnostic data hold significant potential for disease understanding, prevention, and personalized health. Here, we demonstrate how the concept of dataLOFT will allow citizen to donate selected clinical and image data to selected research infrastructure in pseudonymized or anonymized form. For image data, a data minimization tool developed for selected clinical data donation is used. A mobile data donation app will be provided, with full integration of consent granting, customization, and revocation function via the dataLOFT Data Wallet. Other functionality relate to pseudonymization, harmonization, and transfer of highly diverse health data, a well a the provision of clinical image data from radiology, and pathology to the clinical data area of dataLOFT. The exploitation of the app and the data donation service will involve Gaia-X IAM service in different B2B models. The application will be offered to research data platforms, for example, a a function-as-a-service with optional customization and training. Infrastructures developed in this use case will also be evaluated in dataLOFT for exploratory project of our partner for innovative analysis and as-a-service offerings. HEALTH-XUse Cases Other significant exploitation opportunity arise from the component and infrastructure used across several of the previously mentioned use case and potentially in future dataLOFT application a well a in other Gaia-X domains. USE CASE General Use and Exploitation Further significant exploitation opportunity arise from the component and infrastructure that areused across several of the aforementioned use case and potentially in future dataLOFT applicationsas well a in other Gaia-X domains: Bundesdruckerei provides the ID management and data trust service a a B2B service and infrastructure component. This component will initially be implemented a a free basic and infrastructure service. The provision a fee-based, individually adaptable B2B additional services, paid by third-party providers, e.g. a a "white label solution", is an example of further options. Part of the dataLOFT platform is a federated infrastructure to enable citizen to manage all their own personal data. This is where B2B service are created, in which company are given development know-how and access to the infrastructure. The use of connector technology enables the connection of diagnostic patient data collected in the clinical setting through research, development, and deployment of a secure, Gaia-X compliant platform. Interfaces allow basic access to data from the ePA and prepare this information according to the patient's wish for new patient and doctor portals. A special feature of our concept is that we can use the tool of the HEALTH-X Innovation Hub to respond to new requirement and need of citizen and the market in an agile manner by introducing new concepts, development and product in HEALTH-X into the to integrate the overall concept. In this way we ensure that the consortium can react flexibly to new development in the extended HEALTH-X community. The governance and financing structure allows u to react flexibly here by consistently using the stakeholder board and the HEALTH-X General Assembly. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT you change from a simple beneficiary of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who is allowed to use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF BIH CENTER OF DIGITAL HEALTH Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit English Partners Funded Partners The funded partner are the primary contributor to the project. They lead the work package and develop concepts, solutions, and operator and business model based on our use cases. SPONSORED PARTNERS Charit - University Medicine Berlin The mission of the Berlin Institute of Health at Charit (BIH) is a medical translation: finding from biomedical research are translated into new approach for personalized prediction, prevention, diagnostics, and therapy; inversely, observation in everyday clinical practice lead to new research ideas. The goal of the approximately 400 scientist is to achieve a relevant medical benefit for patient and citizens. To reach this goal, BIH, a a translational research unit at Charit, establishes a comprehensive translational ecosystem, focus on a cross-organ understanding of health and disease, and promotes a translational cultural change in biomedical research. BIH wa founded in 2013 and funded 90 %by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) and10% by the State of Berlin. The founding institution Charit - Universittsmedizin Berlin and Max Delbrck Center for Molecular Medicine in the Helmholtz Association (MDC) were independent affiliate in BIH until 2020. Since 2021, the BIH wa integrated into the Charit a a third pillar, a a translational research area of the Charit; the MDC is a Privileged Partner of the BIH. Sponsored Partners Bundesdruckerei GmbH Bundesdruckerei GmbH is a leading German high-tech security company headquartered in Berlin. It protects identity and data with innovative solutions, products, and technology "Made in Germany". In this way, it creates trust and legal security in the digital society - and enables sovereign action by states, companies, and citizen in the analog and digital worlds. As a member of the Bundesdruckerei Group and with over 250 year of experience, the company is paving the way to a secure digital future. Sponsored Partners Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft for the Promotion of Applied Research e.V. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft is the largest organization for applied research in Europe. The research focus of the Fraunhofer Institute for Software and Systems Engineering ISST is the development of technologies, processes, and system for data-centric business solutions. The Fraunhofer Institute for Digital Medicine MEVIS develops interactive system for everyday work in clinical environments. Fraunhofer support the development of the dataLOFT data space for the first and second health sector by developing and extending basic technology a well a networking architecture layers. In doing so, the conception and realization of the professional use case are supported by the appropriate integration of information from imaging procedures. Sponsored Partners Freie Universitt Berlin Freie Universitt Berlin is one of the three full university in Berlin. It is one of the few German university to have been successful three time in the Excellence Competition of the German federal and state governments. Since 2019, the FU ha received permanent funding a part of the Berlin University Alliance under the Excellence Strategy. In doing so, it address it research in eleven department and four central institute in particular on socially relevant topic that are also the subject of successful transfer and translation activities. For years, the FU Berlin ha been one of the top German university with the most science-related start-ups. Sponsored Partners Hasso Plattner Institute for Digital Engineering GmbH In the project, the Hasso Plattner Institute (HPI) is leading the development of the use case "Personalized Health Services" and "Secondary Use of Data". Here, citizen-centered application will be designed, implemented, and scientifically evaluated. HPI is the university competence center for digital engineering in Germany. Together with international partners, HPI establishes application in Digital Health a it contribution to the digital transformation in healthcare and society. The HPI Digital Health Center - Chair of Personalized Medicine of Prof. Dr. Erwin Bttinger is shaping the future of medicine with pioneering development for data-driven personalized health services. Sponsored Partners International Data Spaces e. V. The work of the IDSA is guided by the development of the Gaia-X technology stack for data sovereign indexing and linking of data. The International Data Spaces Association ha developed a reference architecture that provides the foundation for data ecosystem and marketplace based on European values, i.e., privacy and security. Sponsored Partners IONOS SE IONOS is the leading European provider of cloud infrastructure, cloud service and hosting service with more than eight and a half million customers. The product portfolio offer everything company need to be successful in the cloud: from domain to classic website and Do-It-Yourself solutions, online marketing tool to full-fledged servers, and an IaaS solution. The offering is aimed at freelancers, professionals, and consumers, a well a enterprise customer with complex IT requirements. Sponsored Partners Space Technologies GmbH Medisana GmbH ha been operating in the home healthcare market for 30 year and is now one of the leading specialist in healthcare in Germany. For around 10 years, Medisana GmbH and it fully owned subsidiary Space Technologies GmbH have been dedicated to Digital Health with around 100 employees. In doing so, it develops and sell innovative medical and lifestyle product for the home healthcare market and operates a successful combination of measuring devices, mobile applications, and an online health platform with over 1 million registered customers. Sponsored Partners OFFIS e.V. The OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, founded in 1991 a an affiliated institute of the University of Oldenburg, research new form of computer-based information processing in hardware and software system and implement the result in application-oriented developments. OFFIS ha been working for many year in the field of society with innovative, interactive, technology-based solutions, and system for a self-determined and healthy life. In this context, suitability for everyday use and applicability from the user's point of view a well a economic efficiency and usability are of particular importance. Sponsored Partners polypoly Enterprise GmbH polypoly is responsible for the implementation of user-centric data access. Outside of the project, polypoly is building a new and revolutionary economic system for data, which especially through it decentralized approach enables the use of data without violating personal rights. Sponsored Partners Siemens Healthcare GmbH As the world's leading medical technology company, Siemens Healthineers offer product and solution that help physicians, medical staff, and healthcare provider to prevent disease and determine the right diagnosis and treatment for people who are ill. Every hour, more than 240,000 patient worldwide come into contact with Siemens Healthineers technology. Together with our clinical and academic collaboration partners, we create innovation - through solution that make diagnosis and therapy faster and more precise and enable personalized medicine. Siemens Healthineers AG (SHS AG) is the parent company of several businesses. Siemens Healthcare GmbH, a a fully owned subsidiary of SHS AG, comprises the operational business in Germany, with all service that are part of the funding project. Sponsored Partners SVA System Vertrieb Alexander GmbH SVA System Vertrieb Alexander GmbH is one of the leading German system integrators. The company, headquartered in Wiesbaden, Germany, wa founded in 1997 and today employ more than 2,000 people at 26 site in Germany. In the dataLOFT project, SVA will contribute it expertise in IT consulting, interface definition and setup of IT infrastructure a well a project management. Furthermore, SVA will centrally contribute the platform "medPower", of the 100% subsidiary WZAT (Westdeutsches Zentrum fr angewandte Telemedizin). Sponsored Partners TMF Technologie- und Methodenplattform fr die vernetzte medizinische Forschung e.V. The TMF stand for research, networking, and digitization in medicine. It is the umbrella organization for collaborative medical research in Germany, where top researcher exchange knowledge, jointly develop idea and concepts, and shape the future of medical research in the digital age. Sponsored Partners Significo Health GmbH Significo Health GmbH is one of the leading German provider of data-driven, user-centric solution for health maintenance. We are an interdisciplinary team convinced that our product put people at the center of healthcare. We have set out with scientific partner and customer to change today's traditional healthcare system, where people are treated a number rather than individual with unique need and potential. We want to motivate and empower people to proactively take charge of and positively influence their own health. "In HEALTH-X dataLOFT, you go from being a simple recipient of service to a determining and active partner. You get sovereignty over your health data and decide what happens to your sensitive data, how it is used and who may use it." Prof. Dr. Roland Eils FOUNDING DIRECTOR BIH CENTER DIGITAL HEALTH Questions? Of course, our website can only provide you a rough insight into the HEALTH-X dataLOFT. If you have any question about the project, please feel free to contact u at . Berlin Institute for HealthCorporation under German public lawAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT is a project led by Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, founding dicerctor of BIH Center for Digital Health at Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection. 2024 BIH @ Charit Privacy-Preserving Data Sharing: A Systematic Review and Future Research Directions 25.04.2024 13:04 Data sharing play a vital role both in advancing scientific research and improving business success through the creation of data-driven product and service innovations. However, privacy concern often limit the accessibility and utility of sensitive data. To address this challenge, synthetic data generation using Generative Adversarial Networks and Autoencoders ha emerged a a promising approach. This paper present a systematic literature review that explores the current research space of synthetic data sharing for privacy preservation. The systematic literature review encompasses methods, evaluation approaches, applications, domains, and scientific field related to privacy-preserving synthetic data sharing. The vast majority of the selected 66 paper focus on sharing synthetic medical data, indicating a research gap for other domains. The finding of this study provide insight for Information Systems researcher to contribute to the advancement of Generative Artificial Intelligence for data ecosystem and highlight potential research directions. Verwandte Beitrge Berliner Institut fr GesundheitsforschungKrperschaft de ffentlichen RechtsAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT ist ein Projekt unter der Leitung von Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, Grndungsdirektor BIH Zentrum fr Digitale Gesundheit in der Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Gefrdert durch da Bundesministerium fr Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz. 2024 BIH @ Charit The Symphony of Orchestrated Participatory Data Space Governance: A Systematic Review 25.04.2024 13:04 While digital platform lead to societal progress through broadening information access, they started to face criticism for creating winner-takes-all dynamic and enforcing rule that cause societal inequalities. This prompted European policymakers to introduce initiative and regulation that establish data spaces. We systematically reviewed 874 data space publication from three databases, focusing on their governance configuration. We found that data space literature is fragmented, lack conceptual clarity, and considers governance aspect in isolation. First, we contribute by providing a holistic definition and deriving a refined conceptual understanding. We define data space a platform ecosystem built on federated infrastructure and participatory governance configuration for sovereign data exchange oriented toward distributing decision right between stakeholders. Second, building on IS literature on platform ecosystem governance, we characterize the governance of data space along seven dimensions, highlighting their participatory design. This provides the foundation for a nuanced discussion on data space and future research areas. Verwandte Beitrge Berliner Institut fr GesundheitsforschungKrperschaft de ffentlichen RechtsAnna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 210178 BerlinFax: 030 450 7543999E-Mail: HEALTH-X dataLOFT ist ein Projekt unter der Leitung von Prof. Dr. Roland Eils, Grndungsdirektor BIH Zentrum fr Digitale Gesundheit in der Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin. Gefrdert durch da Bundesministerium fr Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz. 2024 BIH @ Charit