Like water, data is an essential resource IMI project Transform the use of patient-reported information in health care, enrich the interaction between patient and provider and, a a result, drive better outcome for patient strategic partnership between the public and private sectors. Aim: create an unprecedented, standardised data governance and infrastructure system across Europe to incorporate patient experience and preference in decision affecting their individual healthcare and those of the entire patient community collect and incorporate patient outcome at scale into healthcare decision making With H2O infrastructure and tools, patient will be able to measure their outcome in a standardised way, whilst keeping full control of their data. Over 20 partner from 12 different country participate in H2O. The Consortium brings together 13 Academic institution and SMEs and 14 EFPIA companies. The H2O project is led by the pharmaceutical company TAKEDA and coordinated by the Medical University of Vienna (MedUni Vienna). STRENGTHENING THE PATIENT VOICE IN HEALTH CARE The Health Outcomes Observatory project (H2O) brings together the public and private sector to create an unprecedented, standardised data governance and infrastructure system across Europe to incorporate patient experience and preference in decision affecting their individual health care and those of the entire patient community. With H2O infrastructure and tools, patient will be able to measure their outcome in a standardised way, whilst keeping full control of their data. Ultimately, this framework of Observatories aim to foster innovation in health care in Europe and beyond todeliver better outcome for all. H2O vision Data governed and managed by the Health Outcomes Observatories will be accessed by patient and their health care provider to promote a richer and fruitful dialogue between patient and health care professional based on meaningful information. H2O aim to create a robust data governance model that give patient control of their data and enables ethical, secure analysis of the data when patient consent to this, in the interest of society, science and patient care. Standardised and structured health data will be available for analysis in order to: enhance health research prospect promote the development of new treatment that reflect outcome reported by patient sustain more efficient healthcare system Sign up to stay informed. We will only process your data to deliver our quarterly update to your inbox. Please visit our or contact u at for more information. Email Address * First Name Last Name Latest news https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Untitled-design.png 600 2000 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2024-04-22 14:37:072024-04-22 14:38:01EORTC and H2O team up for better standardized collection of Patient-Reported Outcomes across Europe https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Screenshot-2023-11-10-141154-e1699622048479.png 274 429 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-11-10 14:12:412023-11-10 14:14:21Leading European Hospitals are embarking on a patient-centric way of providing health care in their clinical practice https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Cover-WP.png 905 640 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-10-05 18:19:312023-10-05 18:38:00The H2O Whitepaper is out https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/IMG_0803-1-scaled.jpg 1920 2560 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-09-28 16:00:112023-09-28 16:01:33Germany launch H2O Observatory Twitter ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. There are various THC detox treatment available, including home cures. A natural cleanse will take the most time, but it will be the most effective and comprehensive detox method. Most natural detoxification procedure are simple to implement and may be used in tandem to achieve the optimum effects. Making these adjustments, whether in detox mode or not, can lead to healthy living patterns. Detoxification is one of the most important way to prepare your body for a painless drug test. However, in order to completely detoxify and prepare your body, you must first understand how most drug test work. THC Detox beverage are promoted for their capacity to temporarily flush THC out of the body on the of ingestion. Most detox beverage only work for a few hours. Nonetheless, these detox beverage might enhance your body's natural detoxification process. A drug test may be dumped on you abruptly, leaving you with no time to cleanse your system before the test. In such case, to pas a urin drug test is to use synthetic urine to pas the test. Assume you're a light marijuana user with a thin layer of marijuana metabolite concentration in your hair and scalp. In that situation, apple cider vinegar may aid in your drug test successNewsletter Sign up to stay informed. We will process your data to deliver our quarterly update to your inbox. Please visit our or contact u at Your email First name Last name Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. ABOUT H2O H2O is a strategic partnership between the public and private sector to create a robust data governance and infrastructure model to collect and incorporate patientoutcomes at scale into healthcare decision making at an individual and population level. The H2O approach give patient ultimate control of their and ensures that only they exercise this control. As and when patient provide consent, this health data can be analysed in multiple way and allow: Patients and their physician to communicate better. Health authority to make more informed decisions. Researchers to advance knowledge and science in health care. The Observatories created by H2O are an ethically and legally appropriate and efficient system of using data in a way that: Measures outcome more effectively Facilitates personalised treatments. Enhances health research prospect and Promotes value based approach in health care systems. H2O brings together 24 partner (13 Academic institution and SMEs and 14 EFPIA companies) to: Establish Observatories a legal entity and running service in each of the four participating country (Austria, Germany, Netherlands and Spain) and in three disease area (diabetes, IBD, Cancer). Collect data and share evidence information on patient reported outcomes. Empower patient with the digital tool data to better manage their health, report their health outcomes, and remain in control of their data. Extend the H2O concept to additional data source and other settings. This project is funded under the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), a large, far-reaching public-private partnership between the European Union and the life science industry to support research and innovation in life-science. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. VISION & OBJECTIVES OUR VISION H2O will strengthen the patient voice in health care with the aim of improving outcome and fostering a value based approach in healthcare systems. This is the first-ever attempt at scale to collect and incorporate patient outcome into health care decision making at an individual and population level. To achieve this vision, we have formed a strategic alliance between the public and private sector to bring to life H2O. We intend it to be a catalyst project that stimulates a greater interest in using health outcome data, including patient-reported outcomes, encourages the adoption of the approach in other country and other disease areas, and ultimately, improves care and, therefore, health. The H2O project represents a collaborative initiative with patients, health care providers, researchers, life-sciences industry, health authority and regulatory body all taking part. This project embodies an exciting innovative journey where information on patient views, experience and self-reported outcome are transformed through the Observatories into meaningful individual- and collective- knowledge thus fostering innovation in health care in Europe and beyond. OUR MISSION An important gap lie in our (still limited) understanding of the value of outcome to patients, with a corresponding challenge of how this information can be incorporated into the process of care. This need to be solved before healthcare system can be considered value based. We are set to change the current scenario by: Creating the governance to unleash the potential of patient health data The network of Observatories will ensure that data is made available to all -patients, researchers, providers, health authorities, regulatory bodies, and industry to improve care and outcomes, whilst providing the governance framework that will allow the management of this data in an ethical and compliant way in order to better safeguard this essential resource in the interest of society a a whole. Fostering engagement to drive patient empowerment With the support of digital tool being developed by H2O, patient will not only be able to track how they feel and visualise their information in a dashboard. They will also be able to compare how they are doing with others, and then discus any variation with their physicians. This will be done through anonymised data voluntarily provided by patient to improve care for the whole patient community a well a their own. Protecting patient privacy right Establishing an ethical and comprehensive governance infrastructure in Europe to safeguard data for and on behalf of patient is one of the main objective of H2O. The observatory will ensure that patient privacy right are protected and that, at the same time, they can fully benefit from the potential structured data hold in improving their health care -and this of the entire community- by allowing a dramatic advancement in research across Europe. Developing a user-friendly system for patient and health care provider With the patient need in mind and their input, H2O will co-create streamlined, easy to use tool and process to ensure that only meaningful, relevant, and comprehensible health data is introduced in a straightforward and intuitive way. Health care professional will gain access to systematic and robust patient reported information to help them better understand the patient and more effectively provide treatment. Building knowledge on what really matter to patient to foster value based health care What really matter to patient will be systematically brought into the equation to provide a deeper understanding of burden of disease and health system performance with a view to identify area for potential improvement. The H2O framework will contribute to the development of valued-based approach in health system across Europe and beyond. Creating Observatories, initially in 4 country ready to operate in 3 disease area The H2O project will set up Observatories in four country (plus and umbrella, European Observatory) focusing on three disease area (initially) that will collect data and provide information not only for individual clinical care, but also for enabling evaluation of new technologies, for health care decision making and for research. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Impact Like water, data is an essential resource, and within the health care system it can be used to empower and serve patients, whilst safeguarding their privacy. Health data ha the potential to inform and facilitate a richer dialogue between patient and their healthcare provider a well a improve self-management, thus resulting in better care for individual and more efficient and sustainable health care system for the entire community. H2O is set to transform the use of patient-reported information in health care, enrich the interaction between patient and provider and, a a result, drive better outcome for patients. The H2O approach will deliver a positive impact across the health care ecosystem by enhancing health research prospects, promoting the development of new treatment that reflect outcome reported by patient and sustaining more efficient healthcare systems. Learn how H20 will benefit ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Work Packages H2O ha established an ambitious work plan to create an unprecedented, standardised data governance and infrastructure system across Europe to incorporate patient opinion and preference in health care. The transformational nature of this project call for intense collaboration in different sphere of expertise. Work ha been organised around 4 general area -governance, technical infrastructure, Observatories management and scientific coordination and project management- and 3 disease specific work group focusing on diabetes, IBD and cancer. Leading expert representing top-level organisation involved in H2O are working hand in hand across these different area to deliver the expected result by 2025. Next, you will find more detailed information about the scope of each work package. WP1 Governance, Sustainability, Capabilities This work package is responsible for defining the core concept of H2O. The scope of it work range involves devising the governance and legal framework, business architecture and quality assurance process of the H2O ecosystem and ensuring the ability of the Observatories to collect new data and make them fit to be catalyst for interoperability with existing health data source in the respective countries. WP2 Technical infrastructure and interoperability Work package 2 is focused on the design and implementation of the technical architecture of the H2O project, to support data management according to the project vision. These encompasses the implementation of a patient app for PRO data collection and a health care provider portal, and the development of a data integration platform, together with the overall Observatory framework. WP3 Diabetes This work package support improvement in diabetes outcome by collecting diabetes-related (Type 1 and Type 2) clinical and patient-reported health status data and by utilising these data to inform decision making by patient and health care providers. Amongst other objective work package 3 is responsible for the development of a European consensus for a standardized, core data, and the preparation of multilingual guidance and education material for patient and health care professionals, besides providing data for segmentation of the population. WP4 Inflammatory Bowel Disease Work package 4 aim to contribute to address some of IBD significant unmet need among different subpopulation and advance on greater patient-centricity and personalization of treatment to achieve better outcome for IBD patients. This work package focus on developing a European consensus for a minimum set of standardized outcome for IBD, defining technological requirement and preparing multilingual guidance and education material for patient and health care professionals. WP5 Cancer treatment One of the main objective of work package 5 consists of selecting appropriate standard for capturing the patient perspective of disease through PRO instrument and wearables, in combination with clinical data to better capture the patient perspective of cancer and the impact of (novel) treatments. This work package also focus on establishing technological requirement and designing strategy for patient participation, and physician awareness and engagement, in the collection and use of PROs. WP6 Observatory management: communication and analysis The main objective of work package 6 is to implement, operate and coordinate a network of H2O Observatories (including four National H2O and one Pan-European Umbrella H2O Observatory) and to ensure their sustainability and scalability in the long term. This work package is also responsible for conducting innovative data analysis, manage the gateway for user to anonymised and also to aggregated data, by overseeing and supporting the appropriate, governed and secure access to this data. WP7 Scientific coordination & project management Work package 7 is responsible for the project oversight and coordination at the strategic and scientific level through an effective management and communication structure. This work package provides project leadership and coordination through the application of the best scientific knowledge, vision, and collaborative work. It also focus on the communication and dissemination strategy. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Governance H2O LEADERSHIP The H2O project is led by the pharmaceutical company TAKEDA and coordinated by the Medical University of Vienna (MedUni Vienna). Meni Styliadou, Distinguished Fellow, Data Sciences Institute, at Takeda Pharmaceutical and Tanja Stamm, Head of the Institute for Outcomes Research Center for Medical Data Science at the Medical University of Vienna pilot the project. H2O GOVERNANCE H2Os governance model promotes the active participation of hospitals, academia, patient organisations, pharmaceutical company (EFPIA) and associated partner in order to achieve maximum collaboration and data sharing. The management structure of H2O ha been developed to respond to the need of an international large-scale multi-stakeholder project and it includes: General Assembly (GA) which integrates all partner and ha the ultimate decision-making responsibility in matter affecting the overall project strategy and composition of the Consortium. Steering Committee (SC) which is formed by work package and the Country Coordinators (CC) where the observatory will be first implemented. The SC is responsible for decision making on matter affecting the overall execution of the project. Executive Committee (ExCom) which consists of the leader of the public and the industry consortium and is in charge of the overall scientific leadership of the project and strategic oversight. Country Coordinators (CC) in Austria, Germany, Netherlands and Spain (one public and one EFPIA) are responsible for ensuring the successful implementation of H2O and, in particular, of the Observatories a part of the national ecosystem. Coordination and Management Office (CMO) which is integrated by the Scientific Coordinator and the Project Managers and focus on the day to day operations. Data Management Officer (DMO) which participates in the definition of the data management governance and workflow and monitor the management of data collection and quality control performed by different partner in H2O. Charit lead the DMO with the support of i~HD. Advisory Boards composed by recognised external expert in ethical, regulatory, patient and scientific and technical aspects. Patients specifically are represented in the three disease-specific Patient Advisory Boards (PABs). ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Factsheets ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Partners Over 20 partner from 12 different country participate in H2O. The Consortium brings together 13 Academic institution and SMEs and 14 EFPIA companies. The H2O project is led by the pharmaceutical company TAKEDA and coordinated by the Medical University of Vienna (MedUni Vienna). Universities, research organisations, public bodies, non-profit group SMEs Patient organisationsEFPIA company Associated partner ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Steering Committee Tanja StammMedical University of Vienna, Project Coordinator Health Outcomes Observatory Meni StyliadouTakeda, Project Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Afroditi AvgerinouPfizer, WP6 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Marc BroerenTakeda, H2O Netherlands Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Nicholas Craig CarneyRoche, WP4 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Ilis-Georgia CharlaftiRoche, WP4 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Yolima CossioVall Hebron Barcelona Hospital Campus, WP6 Co-Lead, H2O Spain Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Marc FerranteKU Leuven & University Hospitals Leuven, WP4 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Mahesh FuldeoreAbbVie, WP5 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Susanne HartzLilly, WP3 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory David HopkinsNHS, WP3 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Carmen HurtadoJDRF, WP3 Co-Lead Health Outcomes ObservatoryAstrid JankowitschTakeda, H2O Austria Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Dipak KalraI~HD, WP1 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Alexandra Kautzky-WillerMedical University of Vienna, WP3 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Nataliya KemenyashTakeda, WP7 Co-Lead, CMO Representative Health Outcomes Observatory Linetta KoppertErasmus MC, WP1 Co-Lead, H2O Netherlands Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Tom MetcalfeRoche, WP2 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Eva MoleroTEAMIT, CMO Representative Health Outcomes Observatory Carmen Montoto OteroTakeda, H2O Spain Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Bernhard MrazNovartis, H2O Austria Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Francesco PatalanoNovartis, WP5 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Matthias RoseCharit Universittsmedizin Berlin, WP2 Co-Lead, H2O Germany Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Erika SchirghuberRoche, H2O Germany Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory Lonneke van de PollIKNL, WP5 Co-Lead Health Outcomes Observatory ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Associated Collaborators ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Ethical Legal and Social Impact Board The mission of the H2O is empower patient with tool that help them measure their outcome in a standardized way in order to : Have better, evidence based communication with their HCPs that will allow shared decision making; Give patient full control of their data; Create transparency of outcome and enable scientific insight to improve patient outcomes, advance scientific research and improve allocation of healthcare resources. Improve the healthcare information landscape. Some of the fundamental principle guiding our thinking are to: Ensure patient control of their data; Create a model of governance whereby no stakeholder derives power from access to data. To the contrary, stakeholder are incentivized to share their data and enable access to all bona fide researcher from both the public and private sector. Unleash the power of health data and enable innovation and technological advancement to deliver to their fullest potential in health. Implement GDPR and other applicable local rule to safeguard patient right Ensure the highest possible standard of cyber security to protect patient data Demonstrate the value of multi-stakeholder engagement in order to reach broad consensus and achieve standardization; Showcase how public private partnership and a mindset focusing on win win model can create superior value for all stakeholder and contribute to a more sustainable healthcare. Advance the thinking on how to improve health equity by encouraging transparency of patient outcome including those related to socio-economic factors. To put our principle into practice we are working on a number of policies, code of conduct and other implementation measures. At the same time we are cognizant that in order to be successful we would need to win the heart and mind of several stakeholder and we need to be mindful of their perspectives. To succeed in our mission, we have appointed an Ethical Legal and Social Impact Board that will challenge us, guide u and support u in making the right decisions. The ELSI Board will convene 4-6 time per year and the discussion will be focus on the policies, code of conduct and other implementation measure planned to achieve our mission. Board Members https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/jan-hazelzet/Jan A. Hazelzet, ChairProfessor Em. In Health Quality and Outcome at Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, Netherlands Health Outcomes Observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/rogier-snijdewind/Rogier SnijdewindExpert in Responsible Investment & Access to Healthcare, Netherlands Health Outcomes ObservatoryValentina StrammielloDirector of Programmes at European Patients Forum, Brussels, Belgium Health Outcomes Observatory Daniel StrechProfessor for Translational Bioethics at Charit, Berlin, Germany Health Outcomes Observatory Kristof Van AsscheResearch Professor in Health Law & Professor of Philosophy of Law, University of Antwerp, Belgium Health Outcomes Observatory Itziar De LecuonaAssociate Professor, Ethics Advisor, Director of the Research Center Bioethics and Law Observatory- UNESCO Chair in Bioethics, University of Barcelona, Spain Health Outcomes Observatory ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Scientific Advisory Board https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/diana-delnoij/Prof. Dr. Diana M.J. DelnoijHealth Outcomes Observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/montse-ferrer/Dr. Montse FerrerHealth Outcomes Observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/christopher-b-forrest/Christopher B. Forrest, MD, PhDHealth Outcomes Observatoryhttps://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/niek-klazinga/Niek Klazinga, MD, PhDHealth Outcomes Observatoryhttps://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/martin-ingvar/Martin Ingvar MD, PhDHealth Outcomes Observatoryhttps://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/ulrich-sax/Ulrich Sax, Dr. rer.nat., Dipl.Inform.med.Health Outcomes Observatoryhttps://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/soren-e-skovlund/Soren E. Skovlund, PhDHealth Outcomes Observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/caroline-terwee/ Dr. Caroline TerweeHealth Outcomes Observatoryhttps://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/paula-williamson/Prof. Paula Williamson, PhDHealth Outcomes Observatory ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. About the Observatories The national Observatories are independent, not-for-profit, legal entity created for data collection, analysis and evidence sharing to inform clinical practice and healthcare decisions. These ethically and legally sound national, or regional, H2Os are initially being created in four country -Netherlands, Austria, Germany and Spain- covering three disease -cancer, diabetes and IBD (Inflammatory Bowel Disease)-. They operate under a governance model that guarantee data protection under national and European jurisdictions. These independent entity (observatories) guard data on behalf of patients, who keep control of their own data being used for individual and collective care, research or the evaluation of new technologies. These H2Os connect to a pan-European Observatory to facilitate interoperability, guide reproducibility in other countries, and promote the benefit of measuring and using patient-centred outcome at regional, national, European and global levels. Information about the national Observatories will soon be available Netherlands Austria ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. How do they work? The primary aim of H2O is to provide patient and their health care provider with information for use in individual clinical care: Each individual patient will see a personalised dashboard with information on their disease progression, treatment, and outcome and how this compare with other patient experience through anonymised, aggregated data to ensure patient privacy right are protected at all times. The personalised information will allow each patient to have better discussion with their health care provider and to better manage their own condition Each individual patient will be able to compare his or her well-being with aggregated data from similar patient with the aim of equipping him or her to better manage their care and, therefore, their outcomes. With the patient consent, the relevant health care professional(s) will also receive the information, allowing for regular and up to date tracking. The second major aim of H2O is to make the information available in order that patient-reported data is at the heart of broader healthcare decision making: H2O will enable health authority to compare different patient pathway and select the most efficient ones, optimising patient outcome and costs. Researchers will be able to conduct study based on real world evidence to inform future interventions. National and international patient organisation will be able to use aggregated information a evidence in providing guidance and advocacy. Industry will be able to conduct analysis to inform drug development activity and generate evidence for submission to health authority This new source of information will facilitate benchmarking and will add an extra dimension for HTA body in their assessment of the value of health care. This, in turn, will permit continual adjustment to healthcare approaches, making continuous value-based healthcare improvement a reality. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. H20 Espaa Quines somos? Y Qu estamos haciendo? El Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron y Takeda Espaa unen sus fuerzas y experiencia para desarrollar un observatorio que recoger los resultados de salud informados por los pacientes a nivel nacional. Dra. Yolima Cossio Directora Information Systems and Decision Support Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron Dra. Carmen Montoto Directora Mdica, de Regulatorio y Calidad de Takeda Takeda Tres equipos de investigacin de Vall dHebron especialistas en cncer, diabetes, y enfermedades inflamatoria intestinal participarn en este proyecto para definir el conjunto de resultados de salud informados por los pacientes, recopilarlos y analizarlos conjuntamente con los datos clnicos y a integrar la voz del paciente en la atencin mdica. Dr. Joan Carles Tumores Genitourinarios, del SNC y Sarcoma, VHIO Dr. Francesc Casellas, Enfermedades Digestivas y Hepticas VHIR Dr. Rafael Sim Diabetes y Metabolismo VHIR En qu consiste este proyecto? El proyecto se basa principalmente en la recogida de los resultados de salud que reporten los pacientes y otros datos clnicos para construir a el observatorio. Esta informacin no permitir mejorar la atencin a cada paciente, centrarnos en aquello que e realmente importante y a enfrentarnos al reto de hacer sostenible nuestro sistema de salud ofreciendo la mejor atencin Yolima Cossio, Directora Information Systems and Decision Support Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron El objetivo de H2O e hacer una recopilacin comn, y necesaria para todos, yo como mdico, y como ciudadana, como proveedores de salud, creo que e un proyecto muy grande, ambicioso y bonito pero que podemos lograr entre todos. Carmen Montoto, Directora Mdica, de Regulatorio y Calidad de Takeda H2O en palabras de la doctoras Yolima Cossio (VHIR) y Carmen Montoto (Takeda). Quieres formar parte del proyecto? Por favor contctanos en Quieres saber ms? Echa un vistazo al documento de transparencia que explica los recursos del proyecto y como se distribuyen Tienes preguntas sobre H2O? Puedes encontrar m respuestas aqu O enviarnos tu pregunta a Boletn Si quieres recibir actualizaciones o noticias sobre el observatorio H20 nacional, ltimas noticias y eventos Reunin de lanzamiento del observatorio H2O nacional El 16 de Abril, tuvo lugar la reunin de presentacin del proyecto, impulsado por el hospital Vall dHebron para elevar la voz de los pacientes y mejorar los resultados de salud. Qu te inspira este proyecto? Quieres formar parte del proyecto? Por favor contctanos en ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Health Outcomes Observatory Deutschland Wer sind wir? Was machen wir? Von einem Konsortium angesehener PartnerInnen gegrndet, die sich fr positive Vernderungen im Gesundheitswesen einsetzen. H2O e.V. wird mit fhrenden Forschungseinrichtungen, Organisationen de Gesundheitswesens und ffentlichen Einrichtungen zusammenarbeiten. Ziel ist es, die Standardisierung der von den PatientInnen berichteten Ergebnisse, den Wissensaustausch und die Zusammenarbeit zu frdern. Brbel Shlke H2O ist eine der intelligentesten Initiativen, die ich je gesehen habe. Es gilt zudem al eines der ersten Pilotprojekte, da zeigt, wie der Europische Gesundheitsdatenraum (EHDS) in der Praxis funktionieren kann. Matthias Rose Indem wir verschiedene Fachleute und Interessengruppen zusammenbringen, wollen wir eine Plattform schaffen, die sinnvolle Vernderungen vorantreibt und letztendlich die Ergebnisse fr die PatientInnen verbessert. Wir freuen uns, die Grndung von H2O e.V. in Berlin bekannt zu geben. Jan Brnneke Zu den Grndungsmitgliedern gehren: Jan Brnneke Projektleiter BWI IT fr Deutschland GmbH Aliz Rogge H2O Projekt Managerin Charit Center for Patient-Centered Outcomes Research (CPCOR) Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin Susanne Weinbrenner Leiterin de Geschftsbereiches Prvention, Rehabilitation und Sozialmedizin Deutsche Rentenversicherung Bund (DRV) Dagmar Kownatka ehemals Head of Healthcare Transformation & Value Based Health Care Roche Diabetes Care GmbH Matthias Rose H2O Projektleitung Direktor Medizinische Klinik mit Schwerpunkt. Psychosomatik Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin Brbel Shlke Vorstandsmitglied Zielgenau e.V. Patientennetzwerk Lungenkrebs Lisa Otto H2O Projekt Managerin Charit Center for Patient-Centered Outcomes Research (CPCOR) Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin Ariel Dora Stern Associate Professor fr Business Administration Harvard Business School zuknftige Alexander von Humboldt Professorin fr Digital Health, Economics and Policy Hasso-Plattner-Institut Lisa Otto, Jan Brnneke, Matthias Rose, Aliz Rogge, Susanne Weinbrenner Ein wichtiger Schritt fr bessere Gesundheitsdaten: Das Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) startet offiziell in Deutschland Berlin, Deutschland 28.09.2023 Unterschiedliche Akteure au dem privaten und ffentlichen Sektor haben ihre Krfte gebndelt, um da Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O), einer von der Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) untersttzten Initiative, in Deutschland zu etablieren. Das Ziel von H2O ist es, die Forschung durch umfassende Datensammlung voranzutreiben und damit bessere Ergebnisse fr PatientInnen zu erzielen. hnlich wie bereits etablierte Beobachtungszentren in den Niederlanden, sterreich und Spanien wird auch da deutsche Beobachtungszentrum, H2O e.V., den Fokus auf die Bedrfnisse der PatientInnen legen. Kontrolliert von PatientInnen, sollen Erkenntnisse au der realen Welt in praxisnaher Weise gesammelt werden einschlielich den Erfahrungen der Patienten und Patientinnen. Dabei werden die Daten einheitlich erfasst, um die Kommunikation zwischen PatientInnen und rztInnen zu verbessern, und Forschungsergebnisse besser nutzbar zu machen. Der H2O e.V. startet zu einem Zeitpunkt, an dem die Diskussionen um die Erneuerung de Gesundheitswesens in Deutschland auf einem Hhepunkt sind. Debatten um die geplante Krankenhausreform, die Elektronische Gesundheitsakte und die steigenden Kosten fr die gesetzliche Krankenversicherung zeigen verdeutlichen die Notwendigkeit von Vernderungen. Der deutsche Ableger de H2O knnte einen Beitrag zur Lsung dieser Probleme leisten. Er wurde von einem Konsortium angesehener PartnerInnen gegrndet, die sich fr positiven Vernderungen im Gesundheitswesen einsetzen. ber H2O Das Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) ist ein ffentlich-privates Konsortium, da Patienten, Leistungserbringer, Regulierungsbehrden und Entscheidungstrger de Gesundheitswesens zusammenbringt. Das gemeinsame Ziel ist, Patient:innen in den Mittelpunkt einer wertorientierten Gesundheitsversorgung zu stellen. Dazu werden die von den Patient:innen berichteten subjektiven Wahrnehmungen (Patient Reported Outcomes, PROs) standardisiert erfasst und in die Entscheidungsfindung einbezogen. Wenn rzt:innen und Patient:innen eine gemeinsame Sprache sprechen, ergeben sich daraus Vorteile, wie verbesserte Kommunikation, Einblicke in die Realitt von Patientenpopulationen, hhere Versorgungsqualitt und nachhaltige Gesundheitsversorgung. H2O wird derzeit an mehreren Standorten in Europa eingerichtet. Untersttzt durch einen Zuschuss der IMI Dieses Projekt wurde vom Gemeinsamen Unternehmen Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) 2 im Rahmen der Finanzhilfevereinbarung Nr. 945345-2 gefrdert. Das Gemeinsame Unternehmen wird durch da Forschungs- und Innovationsprogramm Horizont 2020 der Europischen Union sowie durch EFPIA und Trial Nation und JDRF untersttzt. H2O-Partner Zu den 23 Partnern gehren: Medizinische Universitt Wien (Koordinator) und Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG (Projektleiter); Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin, Erasmus Universitait Medisch Centrum Rotterdam, Institut Catal de la Salut Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron, Novartis Pharma AG, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, und Eli Lilly International al Mitglieder de Exekutivausschusses; und Kings College London, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Forum Europeen de Patients / European Patients Forum, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, The Hyve BV, TEAM IT Research, Karolinska Universitetssjukhuset, Universit Vita-Salute San Raffaele, De Stichting Integraal Kankercentrum Nederland, AbbVie INC, JDRF, Medtronic International Trading SARL, Pfizer Ltd, Sanofi-Aventis Recherche & Development, und Trial Nation al Konsortiumsmitglieder. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. H2O, with and for patient Patients play a major role in shaping a new future for health care in Europe. A future where their insight and experience are also taken into account in decision concerning their care. This is H2Os vision. As a project focused on empowering patient to deliver better care outcomes, we would like to tell you more about H2O and the positive impact it will bring to the patient community, and to society a a whole. You can also find more information about H2Os expected impact or learn about the contribution the are making to the project. Next, we try to answer some question about H2O that may go through your mind, a a patient, carer or patient representative. What is H2O (Health Outcomes Observatory project)? H2O is a public/ private partnership that aim to set up patient centric national pan-European observatory to strengthen the voice of patient in the individual relationship with their healthcare providers, but also in health system more broadly. This is the first ever attempt at collecting and including patient outcome in healthcare decision making at scale. What doe the H2O project focus on? The project will establish health outcome observatory in Germany, Spain, Austria and the Netherlands; and it will focus on three disease areas: Diabetes, Inflammatory Bowel Disease, and Cancer. H2O will strengthen the patient voice by providing patient with tool to measure their health outcome (or measurements) in a standardised way, and at the same time giving them full control of their data, including deciding who can access it. If patient choose to share their data, it will be anonymised and stored securely. What are the long-term goal of the project? In the long-term, H2O aim to help patient have better communication with their provider and create transparency of outcomes; This will help all stakeholder better understand how to improve patient care. H2O will also aim to establish a wider range of observatory in more country and covering more disease areas. What is the importance of H2O for the patient community? Often, the way disease are measured is largely based on input from clinicians. Because of this, these measurement (or outcomes) do not necessarily include the experience of the patients, and the impact of a disease on their life. The aim of this project is to create a framework that incorporates and amplifies the patient voice both in their own healthcare and in healthcare system more broadly. By creating this framework, H2O hope to: improve the dialogue between patient and healthcare provider, so that patient receive better care; improve healthcare professional access to data to inform their clinical decisions; and ultimately improve the quality and sustainability of care based on outcome that truly matter to patients. Who will use the patient data? The patient may choose to share their data with their doctor or other health care provider so that they can have better communication and discus their progress and outcomes. Patients may also choose to allow their data to be included in an anonymised pool of data that will allow researcher to get better insight about their disease, possible treatment or quality of care.. One of the role of the observatory is to ensure that this data is accessed ethically. It will therefore be made available to stakeholder that have a legitimate interest to use it for scientific or policy research. This information can help researcher understand the disease better and find possible treatments, help policy maker identify how to improve care, help doctor understand what matter most to patients, allow company to develop new therapies, and guide society on how to best use resource to improve healthcare. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. H2O Patient AgreementThe H2O Patient Agreement is a legal agreement of the kind most of u are familiar with when we sign up to any app. However, it is unique in a number of features: It begin with the assumption that patient remain in control of their data, rather than signing away control a a default; It give clear guidance and option to opt in or out of sharing data with anyone, including Health Care Professionals; It enables the option of data sharing with accredited institution for research purpose with the option to opt-out where patient would prefer not to be part of research; It set up the permission to allow the combination of outcome data with electronic health record residing in healthcare facilities. This is one of the main cornerstone of what H2O stand for: unleashing the power of patient reported outcome while keeping patient in control of their health data. We are grateful to the member of the H2O Patient Advisory Boards (PAB) who have been instrumental in shaping this agreement. The document wa developed in continuous consultation with the PABs, culminating in a face to face meeting at our office in Brussels. During that meeting, the advisor told u loud and clear the H2O ecosystem can be a game-changer for patient empowerment. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. FAQS What is health data? Health data refers to a type of (digital) information that help u to understand a person health, their health risks, and how their health is being managed. It can be created by patient and healthcare professional like through electronic health records, prescription records, lab tests, etc. And it can be created through mobile phone applications, wearable devices, etc. What is data security? Data security refers to protecting data and information system from unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction. What is a health outcome? A health outcome refers to the way that a disease is assessed and measured. It usually includes measurement like symptoms, morbidity (the physical state/illness being considered) or mortality (death). These measurement are made using a clinical definition. Clinical outcome: a type of outcome measurement which is made by a trained healthcare professional after observing a patient health condition. It can include measurement of how effective or safe a treatment is. . Patient reported outcome (PRO): refers to the measurement of a patient experience or view in clinical care; the patient tell their healthcare provider themselves how they feel and what their level of functioning is in daily life; furthermore, they state what they want to achieve from a treatment. A PRO can be used to ass symptom a experienced by a patient, activity limitation and participation restrictions, quality of life, and other health perceptions. It is not a clinical measure, and it is typically collected using a questionnaire or interview. What is Value Based Healthcare? Value based care refers to an approach to healthcare where the outcome that matter to patient are at the centre of decision making. This includes focusing on intervention that address prevention, social care, and healthcare in an integrated way around people and patients. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Visualising success: Check out the infographic, video, and poster explaining H2O Its not always easy to explain something a technical and complex a the challenge and possibility of using health data! Thats why we have created a an , and poster highlighting the working and benefit of H2O. In under two-and-a-half minutes, this explains the role of data in treating disease and the possibility enabled by H2O in term of patient empowerment and better conversation with healthcare providers. It also briefly show how H2O secures patient data and can contribute to enhancing both health research and the sustainability and efficiency of healthcare systems. follows the journey of a patient, Lisa, a she us H2O to track her outcome and thus enjoy benefit such a having more effective conversation with her caregiver and better tracking and comparison of her treatment results. The visual also show what Lisa can choose to do with her data, such a sharing it with relatives, or for research purposes. Be sure to share these far and wide! The video especially can be posted on social medium platforms, while the infographic can be shared both virtually and printed to be put on your office wall for educational purposes. Other languages: Additionally, poster in different language have been created for patient organization and hospital to use and spread the word on H2O. Check them out! ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs)Do you want to find out more about PROs or share this information with someone who might be interested? Check out our patient-geared leaflet all about the topic: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. News https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Untitled-design.png 600 2000 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2024-04-22 14:37:072024-04-22 14:38:01EORTC and H2O team up for better standardized collection of Patient-Reported Outcomes across Europe https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Screenshot-2023-11-10-141154-e1699622048479.png 274 429 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-11-10 14:12:412023-11-10 14:14:21Leading European Hospitals are embarking on a patient-centric way of providing health care in their clinical practice https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Cover-WP.png 905 640 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-10-05 18:19:312023-10-05 18:38:00The H2O Whitepaper is out https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/IMG_0803-1-scaled.jpg 1920 2560 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-09-28 16:00:112023-09-28 16:01:33Germany launch H2O Observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/MicrosoftTeams-image-55-scaled.jpg 1920 2560 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2023-07-13 08:31:332023-07-13 08:31:33Announcing the H2O Patient Agreement https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/e9ac15be-6297-4444-882e-e7dc30b5a799.jpg 708 766 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-12-07 14:59:582023-07-20 19:01:32Unleashing data in digital health; launching the H2O Observatories https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Stamm.jpeg 850 644 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-12-06 10:39:382022-12-06 10:59:44H2O Austria celebrates founding with multi-stakeholder kick-off event https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/ICHOM_MBCOS_web.png 320 836 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-11-03 09:33:172022-11-03 09:33:17H2O metastatic breast cancer outcome set accredited by ICHOM https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Aarhus_website-banner-836--320-px.png 320 836 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-10-13 10:56:472023-07-20 18:57:03Joint Collaboration Agreement with Aarhus University Hospital https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Aobs2_1.jpg 394 1022 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-09-21 09:53:242022-11-03 12:59:08Austrian H2O Observatory Founded https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Article-graphic.jpg 572 563 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-08-16 08:32:452022-08-16 09:50:35H2O Observatory Launched in Netherlands https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/ICHOM-H2O-Social-Post-836--320-px.png 320 836 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-07-25 12:59:162022-07-25 12:59:16Joint statement from H2O and ICHOM announcing a new collaboration agreement https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/H2O_ES.jpg 661 992 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-05-18 13:15:102022-06-23 11:56:38Creation of the independent legal entity of the H20 (Health Outcomes Observatory) project in Spain. https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/h2o-responds-3.png 320 836 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-05-06 09:13:072022-05-06 09:14:27H2O response to the new European Health Data Space (EHDS) https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/video.jpg 480 657 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-05-04 13:48:442022-05-04 13:55:08Unleashing the Power of PROS an H2O Hosted Conversation https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/may22_OH_all.png 771 1378 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-04-28 15:24:122022-04-28 15:29:12Please join u for our Open House Sessions in May 2022 https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/H2O-welcomes-new-partners-1.jpg 560 1000 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2022-02-08 16:20:592023-07-20 18:52:02H2O, collaborating with public health partner to lead and advise the first pan-European Observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/Help-us-develop-H2O-so-it-leads-to-improved-dialogue-between-patients-and-doctors-to-drive-better-care-9.jpg 900 1600 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-12-17 14:46:462021-12-21 08:35:02Study show integration with health care system remains critical to success https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/Patient-reported-outcomes-measures-in-consultations-859-x-600-px-800-x-600-px-750-x-600-px-1.jpg 600 750 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-12-13 14:50:022021-12-13 16:43:00H2O welcome Power UP report https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Patient-reported-outcomes-measures-in-consultations-859-x-600-px.jpg 600 859 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-11-26 16:16:052021-12-03 19:43:33Health administrators, clinicians, and patient discus their unique experience with PROs https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Driving-a-brighter-future-in-healthcare-through-patient-reported-outcomes-PROs-The-H2O-approach-859-x-600-px-1.jpg 600 859 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-10-20 12:54:342021-12-03 19:43:06Summary of Dr Judith Baumhauer keynote PROs: How they influence the care we provide to our patient https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Help-us-develop-H2O-so-it-leads-to-improved-dialogue-between-patients-and-doctors-to-drive-better-care-725-x-506-px-600-x-500-px.jpg 500 600 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-10-08 20:01:212021-11-09 13:38:12H2O celebrates it 3rd GAM to share project progress https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Making-the-case-for-Delphi-a-robust-approach-to-consensus-4.jpg 600 859 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-10-08 18:51:122021-10-08 19:08:46Making the case for Delphi: a robust approach to consensus https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Copia-de-Copia-de-H2O-2.png 600 859 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-09-28 18:03:552021-10-20 21:22:57Driving a brighter future in healthcare through patient-reported outcome (PROs): The H2O approach https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/RFEI-web-2.jpg 400 800 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-09-14 09:30:062021-10-20 21:23:29An exciting new opportunity for technology provider to lead the way in supporting value-based healthcare https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/Picture-3-NL.jpg 535 995 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-07-23 12:59:112021-07-23 12:59:11Oncology Acceleration session held in the Netherlands https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png 0 0 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-07-20 18:24:112023-07-20 18:25:41Treatment of Erectile Dysfunction after Radical Prostatectomy https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Catalyst-article-graphic-draft-08.06.21-002.png 1080 1920 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2021-06-09 17:12:432021-10-20 21:24:03Read H2Os new paper https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/RFPweb-2.png 1707 2560 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2021-05-21 14:02:442021-05-21 14:02:44Request for proposal for H2Os international observatory extension until 14th June & informational webinars https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/0921203M_Ferrante.jpg 533 800 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2021-05-14 17:10:102021-05-14 17:10:10An interview with WP4 co-lead Marc Ferrante https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/RFPweb-2.png 1707 2560 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-05-05 17:32:252021-05-21 11:54:36H2O seek bid for running it new international observatory https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/DIA-Europe-1.png 600 900 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-03-26 08:56:232021-03-26 10:47:37H2O foster debate on value-based, outcome driven healthcare in DIA Europe 21 https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/patients.png 600 900 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-02-25 18:41:582021-03-23 14:53:32H2O get ready to embrace patient view through the Advisory Boards https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/ThinkstockPhotos-101152575-scaled.jpg 1707 2560 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-02-10 14:29:292021-02-11 16:48:15The governance principle of the Observatories are already starting to take shape https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/RFPweb.png 900 1400 tools@teamitresearch.com tools@teamitresearch.com https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png tools@teamitresearch.com tools@teamitresearch.com2021-01-27 01:04:582021-05-05 17:35:36National activity pave the way for the first Observatories https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/press-release-1.png 900 1400 tools@teamitresearch.com tools@teamitresearch.com https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png tools@teamitresearch.com tools@teamitresearch.com2020-10-12 13:08:532021-02-19 11:29:05Press release H2O kick off https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/imi-h2o.jpg 600 900 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2020-10-01 11:27:042021-04-16 15:19:36IMI fund a project to amplify patient voice in health care NewsletterSign up to stay informed Email Address * First Name Last Name ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Events https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/IMG_7440.jpg 613 828 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2024-03-22 16:18:002024-03-22 16:18:00H2O on a National Scale: The Austrian Chapter https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/copenhagen_event.jpg 470 940 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2023-12-01 12:16:372024-01-09 12:46:44Dive into the Implementation of Patient Reported Outcomes https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/e9ac15be-6297-4444-882e-e7dc30b5a799.jpg 708 766 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-12-07 14:59:582023-07-20 19:01:32Unleashing data in digital health; launching the H2O Observatories https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/Open-house-session-overall.png 1200 1200 Renn https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Renn2022-04-25 09:54:222022-05-04 08:59:06H2O Virtual Open Days May 2022 https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Help-us-develop-H2O-so-it-leads-to-improved-dialogue-between-patients-and-doctors-to-drive-better-care-725-x-506-px-600-x-500-px.jpg 500 600 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-10-08 20:01:212021-11-09 13:38:12H2O celebrates it 3rd GAM to share project progress https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Copia-de-Copia-de-H2O-2.png 600 859 h2o https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png h2o2021-09-28 18:03:552021-10-20 21:22:57Driving a brighter future in healthcare through patient-reported outcome (PROs): The H2O approach ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Press release EPF & H20 Joint statement on Health Systems after COVID-19 Report ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Media & Articles World Economic Forum Article: How to ensure digital transformation in healthcare reach it potential 09 January 2024 Chronic disease are threatening the world population over half of which still lack access to essential healthcare services. Digital technology, AI, and data-driven approach hold the potential to revolutionize health but key barrier are delaying true transformation. The World Economic Forum, together with Boston Consulting Group and other Forum partners, are launching a Digital Healthcare Transformation Initiative, designed to responsibly accelerate progress via public-private collaboration. H2O is listed a an example of a public-private partnership initiative in this WEF article on how to ensure the digital health transformation in healthcare reach it potential. Best Practice Nordic Article: Practical Recommendations for Collection of PRO-Data for Patients With Inflammatory Bowel Diseases01 January 2024 The Health Outcomes Observatory project (H2O) aim to establish uniform data collection methods, specifically focusing on chronic disease like diabetes, IBD, and oncology. Find out how the team behind the H2O project is working to reach this important goal in this article by Liselotte Fierens, KU Leuven, and Marc Ferrante, KU Leuven and University Hospitals Leuven, published on Best Practice Nordic. or access it through directly Karolinska University Hospital Interview: Implementation of Patient Reported Outcomes31 October 2023 Want to know more about H2O? Prof Alexander Chakhunashvili, PhD from the Karolinska University Hospital wa interviewed on patient-reported outcome (PROs), H2O, and the event we hosted in Copenhagen. Karolinska place great emphasis on quality work and constantly strives to improve healthcare for patients. With the help of patient-reported outcome measure (PROM), we can monitor how patient perceive change in their health and quality of life after receiving treatment at Karolinska. Radio Davos Podcast: Quality over quantity: why the time ha come for value based health careNovember 2023 In a podcast with the World Economic Forum, H2O co-lead Meni Styliadou explores the potential benefit of a shift from volume to value, to patient and to health care providers. The concept of value based health care where patient outcome are monitored and health care service are funded on the basis of the quality of care, rather than the quantity of procedure ha been around for a couple of decades, but ha yet to become the norm. This podcast explores the potential benefit of a shift from volume to value, to patient and to health care providers. Guests: Catherine MacLean, Chief Value Medical Officer at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York. Meni Styliadou, Founder and Co-lead of the Health Outcomes Observatory and VP Health Data Partnerships, Data Science Institute, Takeda (featured in episode artwork). IHI Article: New agreement give patient more control over their data11 October 2023 H2Os Patient Agreement wa featured by the Innovative Health Initiative. The project ha recently developed a new way to formalise patient control over their health data through the newly-launched H2O Patient Agreement. Patients who sign on to this agreement join the H2O patient network, allowing them to measure both their own health outcome and control how their data is used for research. World Economic Forum Blog: Could the IKEA approach help assemble truly patient-centric healthcare?01 June 2023 What can IKEA & Healthcare have in common? H2O co-leads Tanja Stamm and Meni Styliadou wrote a blog published by the on how the DIY approach invented by IKEA can pave the way to value-based health care by empowering patient to measure their outcomes. Healthcare relies on clinical data sourced in part from patients. Technology reporting patient outcome in a standardized way would bolster global healthcare and policy-making. IKEAs simple, participatory approach could provide a model for healthcare. Data Saves Lives Blog: Whats the greatest untapped resource in healthcare right now? Hint: youre probably holding it on your phone11 May 2023 Madeleine Brady, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patient, Engagement Consultant and formerly a comms lead for Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O), present a personal view on the impact of H2O on patients. The Medicine Maker Blog: Tap the App - What can science learn from patients, and how can patient benefit from being in control of their own health?27 April 2023 While the pressing need for healthcare transformation is well-known, the fact that patient reported outcome (PROs) could be one of the most powerful factor in driving sustainability within healthcare system is often overlooked. Francesco Patalano, WP6 co-lead, ha explained to The Medicine Maker how PROs offer a huge opportunity to better understand the real burden of disease on patients, their caregiver and society. While there are significant challenge that need to be addressed to unlock real world PROs, H2O is unleashing it potential by creating a common language that can pave the way for increased health data flow, improved #patient outcomes, and more sustainable and efficient healthcare systems. European Patients Podcast: Project Spotlight on H2O, Strengthening the Patient Voice In Healthcare18 January 2023 The European Patients Podcast kicked-off it 3rd season with a Project Spotlight on the Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) project. In this episode, EPF speaks with Linetta Koppert of the Erasmus Medical Centre, and Jolanda Koenders of Takeda, H2O country lead for the Netherlands, to learn more about how H2O is strengthening the patient voice in healthcare. Find out more about the collaboration between EPF and H2O on the . World Economic Forum Report: The Moment of Truth for Healthcare Spending: How Payment Models can Transform Healthcare Systems05 January 2023 In this Insight Report from the World Economic Forum, H2O is one of 34 global case study showcasing the transition to value-based healthcare. The global healthcare budget crisis is not a new topic and rising healthcare cost continue to be a critical discussion point. The limit of what can be spent on healthcare are being reached, and further, this spend isnt correlated with improved patient outcomes. Healthcare system worldwide urgently need transformation, but this change is possible only alongside the broadscale adoption of value-based payment models. European Alliance for Value in Health Blog: Why arent we there yet? The role of partnership in unleashing patient-centred health data21 November 2022 The European Alliance for Value in Health ha featured a blog by H2O co-lead Meni Styliadou describing the gap that H2O seek to cover and how it unique governance structure will make it happen. In the Alliances vision for value-based and patient-centred health systems, the first principle is that outcome that matter to patient should be at the centre of decision-making. In this blog, Meni Styliadou from Takeda and Francesco Patalano from Novartis, both EFPIA members, explains how the H2O public-private partnership will enable the collection of patient-centred data, contributing to making this crucial component of value-based health system a reality. IHI Profile: Reaching the desired (health) outcome26 September 2022 H2O wa profiled by the Innovative Health Initiative after the launch of the first national observatories. It may seem a statement of the obvious, but the most important element of any medical intervention is the outcome. However, it not quite a clearcut a we might think; the desired outcome and the way to get there may differ depending on who is asked. It could be the potential for cure, or it could be the ease of administration or the quality of life while undergoing treatment. Ultimately, however, it is the opinion of patient that matter most. The IMI project H2O Health outcome observatory is seeking to ensure that the patient voice is heard loud and clear. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Blogs ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Videos We are on YouTube ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Scientific Publications Visit the on Zenodo to find all of the project pre-prints, abstracts, reports, and public deliverable in one location. de Ligt KM, de Rooij BH, Hedayati E, Karsten MM, Smaardijk VR, Velting M, Saunders C, Travado L, Cardoso F, Lopez E, Carney N, Wengstrm Y, Ives A, Velikova G, Sousa Fialho MDL, Seidler Y, Stamm TA, Koppert LB, van de Poll-Franse LV.Breast Cancer Research and Treatment. 2023;198(2):265-81. doi:10.1007/s10549-022-06827-6. Abstract Purpose For patient living with metastatic breast cancer (MBC), achieving best possible health-related quality of life, along with maximizing survival, is vital. Yet, we have no systemic way to determine if we achieve these goals. A Core Outcome Set (COS) that allows standardized measurement of outcome important to patients, but also promotes discussing these outcome during clinical encounters, is long overdue. Methods An international expert group (EG) of patient advocates, researchers, medical specialists, nurse specialists, and pharmaceutical industry representative (n=17) reviewed a list of relevant outcome retrieved from the literature. A broader group (n=141: patients/patient advocate (n=45), health care professionals/researchers (n=64), pharmaceutical industry representative (n=28), and health authority representative (n=4)) participated in a modified Delphi procedure, scoring the relevance of outcome in two survey rounds. The EG finalized the COS in a consensus meeting. Results The final MBC COS includes 101 variable about: (1) health-related quality of life (HRQoL, n=26) and adverse event (n=24); (2) baseline patient characteristic (n=9); and (3) clinical variable (n=42). Many outcome that cover aspect of HRQoL relevant to MBC patient are included, e.g. daily functioning (including ability to work), psychosocial/emotional functioning, sexual functioning, and relationship with the medical team. Conclusion The COS developed in this study contains important administrative data, clinical records, and clinician-reported measure that capture the impact of cancer. The COS is important for standardization of clinical research and implementation in daily practice and ha received accreditation by the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM). de Rooij BH, van den Hurk C, Smaardijk V, Fernandez-Ortega P, Navarro-Martin A, Barberio L, Guckenberger M, Schmid S, Walraven I, Vallow S, Kotsi C, Preusser M, Mosor E, Klok JM, Becker A, Milani A, Ninov L, van de Poll-Franse LV. Lung Cancer. 2022;173:5-13. doi:10.1016/j.lungcan.2022.08.021. Abstract Background In 2016, the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) defined an international consensus recommendation of the most important outcome for lung cancer patients. The European Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) initiative aimed to develop an updated patient-centered core outcome set (COS) for lung cancer, to capture the patient perspective of the impact of lung cancer and (novel) treatment using a combination of patient-reported outcome (PRO) instrument and clinical data a a mean to drive value-based health-care. Material and method An international, expert team of patient representatives, multidisciplinary healthcare professionals, academic researcher and pharmaceutical industry representative (n=17) reviewed potential outcome generated through literature review. A broader group of patients/patient representative (n=31), healthcare professional / academic researcher (n=83), pharmaceutical industry representative (n=26), and health authority representative (n=6) participated in a Delphi study. In two survey rounds, participant scored the relevance of outcome from a preliminary list. The threshold for consensus wa defined as70% of participant scoring an outcome a highly relevant. In concluding consensus-meeting rounds, the expert multidisciplinary team finalized the COS. Results The preliminary list defined by the core group consisted of 102 outcome and wa prioritized in the Delphi procedure to 64. The final lung cancer COS includes: 1) case-mix factor (n=27); 2) PROs related to health-related quality of life (HRQoL) (n=25); 3) clinical outcome (n=12). Patient-reported symptom beyond domain included in the ICHOM lung cancer set in 2016 were insomnia, nausea, vomiting, anxiety, depression, lack of appetite, gastric problems, constipation, diarrhoea, dysphagia, and haemoptysis. Conclusions We will implement the lung cancer COS in Europe within the H2O initiative by collecting the outcome through a combination of clinician-reported measure and PRO measures. The COS will support the adoption and reporting of lung cancer measure in a standardized way across Europe and empower patient with lung cancer to better manage their health care. Fierens L, Carney N, Novacek G, van der Woude CJ, Siegmund B, Casellas F, Borruel N, Huberts AS, Sonnenberg E, Gerold N, Primas C, Hedin CRH, Stamm T, Julsgaard M, Fiorino G, Simona R, Zini MLL, Gross E, Sander C, Arijs I, Vakouftsi VR, Koltai T; Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) Patient Advisory Board for Inflammatory Bowel Diseases; Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) Steering Committee; Charlafti I, Ferrante M. Journal of Crohns and Colitis. 2023. doi:10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjad195. Abstract Background and Aims Standardising health outcome measurement support delivery of care and enables data-driven learning system and secondary data use for research. As part of the Health Outcomes Observatory [H2O] initiative, and building on existing knowledge, a core outcome set [COS] for inflammatory bowel disease [IBD] wa defined through an international modified Delphi method. Methods Stakeholders rated 90 variable on a 9-point importance scale twice, allowing score modification based on feedback displayed per stakeholder group. Two consecutive consensus meeting were held to discus result and formulate recommendation for measurement in clinical practice. Variables scoring 7 or higher by80% of the participants, or based on consensus meeting agreement, were included in the final set. Results In total, 136 stakeholder (45 IBD patient [advocates], 74 health care professionals/researchers, 13 industry representatives, and four regulators) from 20 different country participated. The final set includes 18 case-mix variables, three biomarkers [haemoglobin to detect anaemia, C-reactive protein and faecal calprotectin to detect inflammation] for completeness, and 28 outcome (including 16 patient-reported outcome [PROs] and one patient-reported experience). The PRO-2 and IBD-Control questionnaire were recommended to collect disease-specific PROs at every contact with an IBD practitioner, and the Subjective Health Experience model questionnaire, PROMIS Global Health and Self-Efficacy short form, to collect generic PROs annually. Conclusions A COS for IBD, including a recommendation for use in clinical practice, wa defined. Implementation of this set will start in Vienna, Berlin, Barcelona, Leuven, and Rotterdam, empowering patient to better manage their care. Additional centre will follow worldwide. Hamilton K, Forde R, Due-Christensen M, Eeg-Olofson K, Nathanson D, Rossner S, Vikstrom-Greve S, Porth A-K, Seidler Y, Kautzky-Willer A, Delbecque L, Ozdemir Saltik AZ, Hasler Y, Flores V, Stamm T, Hopkins D, Forbes A. Patient Education and Counseling. 2023;116:107933. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2023.107933. Abstract Objectives The objective wa to identify candidate patient reported outcome with potential to inform individual patient care and service development for inclusion in a digital outcome set to be collected in routine care, a part of an international project to enhance care outcome for people with diabetes. Methods PubMed, COSMIN and COMET database were searched. Published study were included if they recommended patient reported outcome that were clinically useful and/or important to people with diabetes. To aid selection decisions, recommended outcome were considered in term of the evidence endorsing them and their importance to people with diabetes. Results Twenty-seven study recommending 53 diabetes specific outcomes, and patient reported outcome measures, were included. The outcome reflected the experience of living with diabetes (e.g. psychological well-being, symptom experience, health belief and stigma) and behaviour (e.g. self-management). Diabetes distress and self-management behaviour were most endorsed by the evidence. Conclusions The review provides a comprehensive list of candidate outcome endorsed by international evidence and informed by existing outcome sets, and suggestion for measures. Practice implication The review offer evidence to guide clinical application. Integrated measurement of these outcome in care setting hold enormous potential to improve provision of care and outcome in diabetes. Porth A-K, Huberts AS, Rogge A, Bnard AHM, Forbes A, Strootker A, Del Pozo CH, Kownatka D, Hopkins D, Nathanson D, Aanstoot HJ, Soderberg J, Eeg-Olofsson K, Hamilton K, Delbecque L, Ninov L, Due-Christensen M, Leutner M, Sim R, Vikstrom-Greve S, Rssner S, Flores V, Seidler Y, Hasler Y, Stamm T, Kautzky-Willer A. Diabetic Medicine. 2023:e15259. doi:10.1111/dme.15259. Abstract Objective Standardised person-reported outcome (PRO) data can contextualise clinical outcome enabling precision diabetes monitoring and care. Comprehensive outcome set can guide this process, but their implementation in routine diabetes care ha remained challenging and unsuccessful at international level. We aimed to address this by developing a person-centred outcome set for Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes, using a methodology with prospect for increased implementability and sustainability in international health settings. Methods We used a three-round questionnaire-based Delphi study to reach consensus on the outcome set. We invited key stakeholder from 19 country via purposive snowball sampling, namely people with diabetes (N=94), healthcare professional (N=65), industry (N=22) and health authority (N=3), to vote on the relevance and measurement frequency of 64 previously identified clinical and person-reported outcomes. Subsequent consensus meeting concluded the study. Results The list of preliminary outcome wa shortlisted via the consensus process to 46 outcome (27 clinical outcome and 19 PROs). Two main collection time were recommended: (1) linked to a medical visit (e.g. diabetes-specific well-being, symptom and psychological health) and (2) annually (e.g. clinical data, general well-being and diabetes self management-related outcomes). Conclusions PROs are often considered in a non-standardised way in routine diabetes care. We propose a person-centred outcome set for diabetes, specifically considering psychosocial and behavioural aspects, which wa agreed by four international key stakeholder groups. It guide standardised collection of meaningful outcome at scale, supporting individual and population level healthcare decision making. It will be implemented and tested in Europe a part of the H2O project. Stamm T, Bott N, Thwaites R, Mosor E, Andrews MR, Borgdorff J, Cossio-Gil Y, de Portu S, Ferrante M, Fischer F, Hameed F, Hazelzet J, Hopkins D, Kalra D, Metcalfe T, Molero E, Newson R, Patalano F, Prasser F, Rose M, Lindskov Sachs M, Soderberg J, Strammiello V, van de Poll L, Styliadou M. NEJM Catalyst. 2021;2(3). doi:10.1056/CAT.21.0146. AbstractSustainable health care system should be focused on outcome instead of reimbursing for the service provided. Critical lever for accelerating this are patient engagement and a more comprehensive, standardized collection of patient outcomes. Also, more expertise is required on how these data can best be incorporated into the care process. The Innovative Medicines Initiative project, a public-private partnership in the European Union, ha launched Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O), a multi-jurisdictional ecosystem to incorporate patient-reported and other health outcome into health care decision-making across Europe. This initiative will initially focus on diabetes, cancer, and inflammatory bowel disease, evaluating and selecting meaningful outcome standard in a way that ensures broad acceptability among all stakeholders. H2O will provide digital tool for patient and implement a state-of-the-art governance system that give patient autonomy to control their data flow and allows for ethical data sharing, while enabling value-based care and driving better outcome for patients. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Reports H2O Consortium. White Paper. 2023. Executive SummaryHealthcare system face unprecedented pressure around the globe. Ageing populations, shortage of healthcare professional and funding restriction are creating a threefold set of strain on our healthcare systems. If we want these system to be sustainable, we must focus our healthcare resource on results. When it come to health, patient outcome must be considered the most important Key Performance Indicator (KPI). This may sound obvious but it is not. Tracking patient outcome can be complicated. It requires standardisation of the outcome to be measured and innovative technology to smoothen the process. The Health Outcomes Observatories (H2O) are focused on creating a common language to allow patient and physician to share standardised insight on outcomes. This common language enables patient to articulate what matter most to them, improves the communication between patient and physician and can enable joint decision-making in healthcare. Better knowledge of patient outcome and improved communication between patient and healthcare professional (HCPs) can enhance health outcome and enable the optimal allocation of healthcare resource to where these can have the greatest impact. Patient-reported outcome (PROs) are foundational to this common language. These are PROs that can be monitored by patient without any intervention by healthcare professional (HCPs). To do this, patient rely on digital technology and thats why building a trusted digital ecosystem ha been a critical part of H2Os work. At the same time, by leveraging digital technology and focusing on creating a trusted digital ecosystem, H2O enables pseudonymised, secure and interoperable PRO data to be accessible across countries. Broader and deeper pool of health data can significantly increase the insight drawn from statistical analysis. H2Os standardisation of health data is therefore a powerful tool that can strengthen both medical research and health policy decision-making. The H2O initiative ha already established a number of National Observatories. And the door is open to more! The more country that join, the deeper the insight that can be gained. In this White Paper, we describe in detail the benefit that the H2O approach can bring and warmly encourage the setting up of more Observatories in other European countries. Pages Categories Archive ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Public DeliverablesWP1 Governance, Sustainability & Capabilities D1.1 Observatory business architecture The observatory business architecture outline the initial design of the national and umbrella observatories, together with the principle behind that design. The business architecture cover organizational matter and is complementary to the technical architecture for the observatory network. The six component of the business architecture include: the mission statement and governance principles; the legal structure for the formation of the observatory and the network of observatories; a summary of the first version of the data management plan; the organizational characteristic of the observatories; and an outline of the approach for the observatory to be sustained beyond the IMI funding period. D1.2 Data Management PlanThis document is the first version of the Data Management Plan Deliverable 1.1 of the IMI H2O project. This version (v1.0) of the DMP will focus primarily on intended development in the first half of the project, up to and including the setting up of the European and National Observatories a legal entities, though it will note development that are expected to occur in the rest of the project or development that are anticipated for entity that continue after the project is complete. Possible issue with this later work will be noted, but not necessarily explored in depth. D1.3 Bylaws of the Patient Advisory BoardsH2O is a strategic partnership between the public and private sector to create a robust data governance and infrastructure model to collect and incorporate patient outcome at scale into healthcare decision making at an individual and population level. It aim to support better health outcome by creating and implementing an unprecedented, standardised data governance and infrastructure system across Europe to incorporate patient experience and preference in decision affecting their health care. The public and private sector have partnered to launch the H2O project to deliver a positive impact across the health care ecosystem by enhancing health research prospects, promoting the development of new treatment that reflect outcome reported by patient and sustaining more efficient healthcare systems. The aim of deliverable D1.3 Bylaws of the Patient Advisory Boards is to lay the foundation of patient involvement in H2O project, set the term of reference and recommend principle for the selection and engagement of patient and patient representative in the three disease-specific Patient Advisory Boards (PABs). Furthermore, this deliverable will present the most important operational and governing side of the three board within the disease-specific work packages, propose potential activity and timelines, and finally, highlight good practice for patient co-creation across all relevant aspect of the H2O project activities. D1.4 KPIs and success metricsDeliverable 1.4 describes the set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and success metric that meet the H2O project mission and ambition. Measuring and monitoring these KPIs will be responsible for ensuring that the project, it implementation and deployment and the outcome evidence generated are of a high and trustworthy quality. We defined a set of KPIs, in collaboration with all work package (WPs), for monitoring the progress and success per WP and for the project a a whole to ensure sustainability (linking this deliverable closely with the work done in WP6 which focus on implementation and sustainability). Some of the KPIs directly refer to deliverable specified in the Grant Agreement. It should prioritise the success metrics, according to the governing principal and taking into account the project mission. D1.5 H2O information governance and ethic frameworkThis document describes the Information Governance Framework for the H2O project, including the establishment of the Health Outcomes Observatories. Information Governance is considered to be a broad term covering data protection, confidentiality and ethic a well a high-level element of information security, which are required when considering the appropriate processing of healthcare data for public benefit. The document describes a number of instrument which will be needed a part of this framework a well a how these are linked to other project deliverables. It build on the earlier deliverable, D1.2 Data Management Plan v1. D1.6 Leaflets explaining PROs in lay termsImportance of Patient-reported outcome (PROs) ha been widely recognized and firmly emphasized on across different stakeholder in healthcare system around the world. Governments have acknowledged the need to integrate the patient perspective to improve quality of healthcare at individual, organisation, and system level. Furthermore, there is a clear political commitment to patient-/person-centred healthcare today. Patients should also insist that health system do more than just collect data after all, answering PROMs (patient-reported outcome measure the tool used to measure and collect data on PROs), requires time and effort from patient just so the data collected should be put to good use to make real improvement and most importantly address their needs. Unlike standard clinical outcomes, PROs give patient and healthcare professional (HCPs) unique insight into how a therapy can affect a patient, hence their significance will continue to grow. D1.7 Stakeholder value proposition and sustainability success factorsH2O is constructing a novel European network for the collection and analysis of Patient Reported Outcomes (PROs). Its data will be rich in patient-collected outcomes, offering unique insight that can benefit patient and many other health system and research stakeholders. Its success critically depends on winning support for the collection of outcome by patient and combining this data with clinician created health data (EHR data) to put the outcome in their care pathway context. This data ha to be of high quality, interoperable and permitted for distributed analysis at regional, national and European levels. Multi-stakeholder support is vital for this. H2O distinguishes: stakeholder who capture the health data (such a patient and health professionals), permit the use by H2O of data they each have control over, and it sharing for distributed analysis, and who therefore provide H2O with it main data product stakeholder who would be willing to pay for data access and use, or pay for H2O to perform analysis for them, and would provide the financial underpinning of the H2O ecosystem endorsing and enabling stakeholder such a health care providers, health authority and regulator whose permission or support are essential for H2O acceptance and success technology provider who may co-invest in the H2O national infrastructures, the European infrastructure and patient apps Value proposition and value chain have to be articulated and promoted across all of these stakeholder groups. This deliverable build on the initial analysis of stakeholder and their value proposition published in an earlier deliverable 6.12. It focus on proposing a methodology for elaborating and maintaining value propositions, and ha provided several example of arriving at such propositions, through employing Value Propositions Canvases (VPCs) and populating them based on what we have learned so far. The deliverable consolidates these learning through the various stakeholder interactions, which have taken several forms. Success factor that H2O need to ensure it achieves, from the perspective of the stakeholder we have engaged with have been also formalized a an initial list, which will be maintained and enriched a we progress through more engagements. Compliance statement to indicate how H2O is responding to each success factor will be also added. Value Proposition Canvases are typically created during f2f interaction with multi-disciplinary project groups. This ha not been possible to carry out under the restriction of the pandemic; rather discussion took place in the framework of setting up the national Observatories, following general guideline within WP6. Four canvas were then completed by the authoring group, following interviewing and extracting information from the country lead report a well a industry representative from within the consortium at this stage of the project (with external stakeholder to be consulted later), to enrich and optimise the initially elaborated set of propositions. The remaining canvas are to be completed collaboratively through a series of virtual workshop and in pace with progress in the project. This part of the work is an internal, consortium level exercise. Once these canvas have been developed a internal drafts, they will be presented and discussed with external stakeholders, both on the data supply and the data demand side, to ensure that they reflect need and aspiration of stakeholder across Europe. The deliverable therefore also proposes a process and a roadmap for completing the full array of canvas and for validating them with the most important customer segment of H2O. Specifically, it proposes the creation of a dedicated Value Propositions project group, to be nested within the broader Design Group foreseen in the GA under T1.2. and validation strategy to be undertaken. Value Propositions are at the heart of the H2O business model and a such they cannot and should not be viewed in isolation, but rather a an integral part of it. At the present stage, the H2O business model ha not been formalised, although several aspect of it are being discussed and the main hoped-for income stream have been articulated. The outlook and next step also recommend the launching of business modelling activity in co-operation with the Erasmus project partner who ha responsibility for the next deliverable in this chain of reports, on business models. WP2 Technical Infrastructure and Interoperability D2.1 Assessment of the Local and National SituationThe main aim of Work Package 2 (WP2) of H2O is the design and implementation of the technical architecture of the H2O project, to support data management according to the project vision. This document report on our assessment of the local and national situation regarding data protection, access to and integration of outcome data from existing clinical record in the participating hospital and the TOC, which will pilot the solution developed and drive the adoption of H2O throughout Europe. D2.2 Architecture BlueprintThe main aim of Work Package 2 (WP2) of H2O is the design and implementation of the technical architecture of the H2O project, to support data management according to the project vision. This document serf to capture the current planning status, to communicate it within the consortium and with the public and to coordinate it with the party involved. D2.3 Core Elements Stakeholder-Centric ReportsThe Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) project aim to enable a value-based approach in healthcare systems, including the use of patient-reported outcome in three disease area (diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and oncology) in four country (Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain). The Work Package 2 (WP2) of H2O contributes by designing and implementing a technical infrastructure per country (national observatories) a well a on a European level (pan-European observatory). For this, WP2 work in close collaboration with the country team in order to establish structure fitted to the individual need per country. The developed technical application should serve patients, physicians, regulators, and researcher to facilitate decision making in various settings. For the sustainable success of the project, the usefulness of collected and displayed data for clinical care is of prime importance. Any use of secondary data for aggregated analysis on real-world data depends on the acceptance within individual care. The identification of core element for stakeholder-centric report is needed to ensure standardization for the various component of the H2O project to facilitate up-take and implementation in routine health care service. Three key elements, i.e. user-centeredness, modularization, standardization led the development of prototype of stakeholder-centric report for patients, a well a health care providers. Patient Interface: Patient empowerment is enhanced by giving people the possibility to have direct access to their health-related data, and thus to make informed decision-making available to each patient. Within this work stream, the aim wa to show possible solution for patient a) to collect their health-related information most convenient, and b) to develop template that provide option for how health information may be displayed to the patient to increase adherence. For more life-threatening disease like cancer, the assumption is that the motivation for patient to provide their health status information is largely based on the conjecture that the provided information is informative for the treating physician. For chronic conditions, like diabetes, other type of motivation to adhere to regular PRO assessment are likely more important. As of today, there is very little evidence on adherence rate to PRO assessment outside clinical studies, and outside academic settings. Based on a preliminary set of PRO variable suggested by the H2O network, we developed an approach including different graphical element which will be shared publicly to encourage innovation. Health Care Provider (HCP) Interface: The design phase for the interface template wa built on existing experience based on long-time research a well a successful example from commercial ePRO-data capture providers. Both served a a starting point informing discussion with clinical colleague inside a well a outside academic care settings. The three target conditions, i.e. Oncology, IBD, and Diabetes, are vastly different in many respect relevant for this topic. This includes different e.g. care settings, disease trajectories, and acceptance of PRO measures. Still, some core element are similar across diseases, allowing a certain level of standardization drawing data from three type of sources: PRO data, lab data, or clinical data. One main conclusion wa that a system is required allowing physician to individually adapt to different clinical and patient need while still receiving relevant information for informed decision making and aggregated data analyses. Within Task 2.3. an exemplary modular system which will be shared in the public domain wa designed for a customized use in a clinical setting. It will become available to all participating H2O site for their consideration (open source). WP3 Diabetes D3.3 Material for education and clinical implementationWP3 aim to sustainably improve diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2) outcome by integrating psychosocial and health status data with clinical diabetes outcome in a standardized manner. This ha the potential to empower patients, facilitate shared decision-making by patient and healthcare professional (HCPs) and promote a more person-centred treatment. The development of the H2O Diabetes standardized core outcome set wa described in deliverable D3.2 and the formulation of technical requirement for collecting and making use of the data wa reported in deliverable D3.1. The current deliverable report summarises the development of information and training material for patient and healthcare professional intended to facilitate implementation of the Diabetes outcome set at the H2O Tier one clinics. A task force wa set up for this task. We used a co-design approach employing both quantitative and qualitative method to inform this process. This included a workshop with patient representative of the Diabetes Patient Advisory Board (PAB), a survey among health professional working with diabetes patient at the H2O clinics, and structured interview with Diabetes clinical lead and other important stakeholder needed for implementation, e.g., IT expert and clinic management staff. Furthermore, we closely collaborated with the other disease work package (i.e., WP4: IBD and WP5: cancer) a well a with the communication team and implementation task force of the H2O project. Our research activity highlight that patient wished for 1) a leaflet, 2) detailed written information, and 3) an e-learning platform, and healthcare professional need practical information for implementation a well a scientific evidence on PROs, preferably presented in the form of 1) a webinar, 2) use-cases, and 3) an e-learning platform. Therefore, we developed a patient leaflet and a scientific webinar for HCPs, both in alignment with the other disease-specific work packages. Furthermore, a patient FAQ document and a framework for patient e-learning, a well a use-cases and clinical pathway for HCPs were created. Patient representative and health professional were involved during the entire process to ensure high acceptability. All material were designed with high inclusivity in mind, e.g., we used an online tool to optimize readability (even when visually impaired). D3.3 present material for both people living with diabetes and diabetes care professional that will support the implementation of the H2O Diabetes outcome set at H2O clinics. It is intended to make all material available on a common platform (this will initially be the H2O website and in the future a common repository hosted by the Pan-European Observatory). All material are currently available in English and may be translated according to the need of the participating clinics. WP4 Inflammatory Bowel Disease D4.2 Report on requirement specificationThe goal of the H2O is to improve healthcare health outcome by collecting, analysing, and utilising standardised clinical and patient-reported outcome data on a large scale. Appropriate digital solution and system need to be developed or optimised to reach the maximum impact and scale desired in the project. Requirements for digital technology selection, adaptation, and development to support data collection must be made in a way that will make H2O available and attractive to a large number of patient with inflammatory bowel disease. Moreover, the layout of the report of the outcome data should be user-friendly, and enable the interpretation and actionability of the collected data in the clinical care context. The main objective of this document D4.2 Report on Requirement Specification is to report on specification for digital technology selection, adaptation, and/or development that are required for the implementation in clinical practice of the inflammatory bowel disease core outcome set defined by the Delphi process (see D4.1). Key aspect required for successful collection and visualisation of outcome data are described. This document also summarises the result of activity outlined in Task 4.2: qualitative research through focus group and topic-focused (expert) meeting and workshops. These task were implemented in close coordination and cooperation with WP2, WP4 and WP5. The following area are included in this document: Insights from an analysis of selected inflammatory bowel disease digital health solution Summary finding from the qualitative research patient advisory board survey result and focus group discussion Summary finding from the qualitative research HCP survey result and focus group discussion D4.3 Material for clinical implementationWP4 aim to better capture the patient perspective of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and the impact of (novel) treatments, through collecting, analysing and disseminating a combination of patient-reported and clinical outcome data, in a standardised way across H2O centre and across a variety of diseases. Recently, an IBD-specific core outcome set wa defined through a multi-stakeholder international process (cf. D4.1). It resulted in the selection of 16 PRO domains, a well a various clinical outcome (cf. D4.1). Eventually, a set of tool and measure to collect PROs ha been recommended for use in the implementation of the core outcome set. In the current deliverable, we aim to 1) gain insight from healthcare provider (HCPs) and patient representative on the content and format of the desired material intended to support implementation and education on PROs and 2) use these perspective to adapt existing material or develop new material for implementation within H2O in the four clinical centre of the Tier 1 countries, namely Spain (ICS-HUVH), Germany (Charit), Austria (MUW) and The Netherlands (EMC), a well a Denmark (Aarhus University) and Italy (Uni-SR) a future H2O implementation centres. This effort will align with the other disease work package in diabetes and cancer a they develop a similar deliverable. First, a short online survey targeting healthcare professional wa designed to determine the most attractive format and most useful content of supporting material for healthcare professionals. Second, in an effort to map the implementation capability of each country clinical centre, individual interview with clinical lead were conducted. We assessed through these interview the level of readiness of their respective clinical department to implement the H2O IBD-specific core outcome sets, building upon already established PROs collection processes. We also identified the foreseeable challenge and potential opportunity that could be encountered within the implementation process of H2O IBD-specific core outcome set in each clinical centre. Eventually, we will catalogue the educational material and resource already available at the four clinical centre in the field of PROs specific to IBD and bundle them into an interactive online collection named Implement H2O for IBD. Finally, based on the knowledge acquired, we will define and develop attractive, suitable and practical educational and informational material for healthcare professional in the field of PROs specific to IBD such a video, on-demand webinars or E-learning modules. In parallel, we will adapt the patient leaflet and the video for patient developed by the European Patient Forum to the IBD- and the Tier 1 country-specific contexts, including local translation and lay language adaptation in collaboration with patients, and patient organization from the Patient Advisory Board. Responses to the HCP survey showed that on demand interactive e-learning tool, offering IBD-type specific information such a a scientific presentation, and use case would be most desirable to train HCPs on the implementation of PROMs. Therefore, a 30-minute webinar presentation wa developed for IBD and later adapted to diabetes and cancer. Patient representative of the PAB-IBD expressed that they would prefer their preference a 1) a one-page patient recruitment leaflet; 2) a 2-minute video 3) more detailed information through a specific website. Eventually, the implementation readiness interview highlighted that all hospital are engaged in the implementation effort albeit at different stages. This educational material and recommendation for recruitment will offer healthcare professional of the four Tier 1 country an attractive resource that will complement the existing educational material available at their institution and facilitate the routine collection of the H2O core outcome set for IBD in their clinical practice. Furthermore, it will bring awareness to IBD patient a well a to healthcare professional about the benefit of collecting PROs for improving the treatment and quality of life of IBD patient and eventually support IBD patient recruitment into H2O. To ensure maximal impact and successful implementation of the H2O IBD-specific core outcome set in the four clinical centre of this material, regular feedback from healthcare professional and patient will be sought and will contribute to the continuous improvement of the format a well a the content of this material. WP5 Cancer treatment D5.2 Report on requirement specificationOne main goal of the Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) project is to improve health outcome by collecting, analysing and utilising clinical and patient-reported outcome data on a large scale in a standardised manner(1). Appropriate digital tool and system need to be developed to reach the maximum impact and scale desired in the project. Requirements for digital technology selection must be raised, development and adaptation of new functionality to support data collection must be driven forward in a way that will make H2O accessible and attractive to a large number of cancer patient and health care professionals. Moreover, the layout of the report of collected data should be designed in a way that is user-friendly and support action and implementation. The main objective of this document D5.2 Report on Requirement Specification is to report on specification for digital technology selection, adaptation and/or development that is required for the implementation of the cancer treatment outcome set defined by the Delphi process (see D5.1). It describes key aspect required for successful collection and presentation of digital cancer-related outcome data. It also summarises the result of activity outlined in Task 5.2: qualitative research through focus group and topic-focused (expert) meeting and workshops. These task were implemented in close coordination and cooperation with WP2, WP3 and WP4. The lead beneficiary of this Deliverable is IKNL. NVS took lead drafting the landscaping analysis. In addition, one European-level focus group discussion wa organised with the oncology Patient Advisory Board coordinated by the EPF. The following area are included in this document: Insights s from a digital landscape analysis of major smartphone apps used in oncology care and management Summary report of topic-focused meeting and workshop organised among the H2O partner Summary finding from the qualitative research with patient and HCPs (focused group discussions) D5.3 Report on educational strategy and materialWP5 aim to better capture the patient perspective of cancer and the impact of (novel) treatments, through collecting, analysing and disseminating a combination of patient-reported and clinical outcome data, in a standardised way across H2O centre and across a variety of cancers. We have prioritised lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer a use case for the development and clinical implementation of core outcome sets, which allows u to build on these process and expand to additional cancer type gradually. The development of the two outcome set wa described in D5.1 and the description of technological requirement wa described in D5.2. In the current deliverable, we aim to 1) gain insight from healthcare provider (HCPs) and patient representative on the content and format of the desired material intended to support implementation and education on PROs and 2) use these perspective to adapt existing material or develop new material for implementation within H2O. First, interview with HCPs already described in D5.2 were re-analysed, this time with the focus to ass readiness for implementation among HCPs. Second, a short survey for HCPs wa conducted to ass the need and wish for material to implement patient reported outcome measure (PROMs). A workshop with the Patient Advisory Board (PAB) Oncology wa organised to brainstorm about the desired educational material on using PROMs for patients. We built upon the generic material for clinical implementation developed by the European Patient Forum (EPF) and followed a common framework for general information and training materials. We aligned with the Diabetes and IBD work package that developed similar materials. All material were further adapted and refined for lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer patients. Responses to the HCP interview and survey showed that an on-demand webinar or e-learning tool, with a seminar-type presentation of max. 30 minutes, including cancer-type specific information, would be most desirable to train HCPs on the implementation of PROMs. Therefore, in alignment with the Diabetes and IBD work packages, two 30-minute webinar presentation were developed for lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer. Patient representative of the PAB-oncology expressed that they would prefer 1) a one-page leaflet for patient recruitment; 2) a 1015-minute podcast with an HCP to raise awareness on patient reported outcome (PROs) and H2O; and 3) instruction video to educate on specific topics. Because of similar need in the Diabetes and IBD work packages, member of the disease-specific work package (DSWPs) and the communication team collaborated to condense a previously developed leaflet by EPF into a simplified one-page leaflet. A H2O podcast wa developed following the EPF framework for developing podcasts on their platform. D5.3 provides the groundwork for clinical implementation of the core outcome set for lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer within H2O. All material will be available in English and can be translated into several language for implementation in participating centre in tier one countries. WP6 Observatory Management Communications & Analysis D6.1 Overarching Operational Plans for National ObservatoriesThe scope of this deliverable is to describe an overarching operational plan for the four National Observatories (NO). The overarching operational plan for the NOs contains a general description of the main action required for the deployment and operational functioning. This deliverable describes on a high level the necessary capability and the main task that the national observatory will implement. D6.2 Operational Plan for each National ObservatoryThe scope of this deliverable is to describe operational plan containing action and activity required for the setup, deployment and functioning of the four National Observatories within H2O. The deliverable describes the necessary capability and the main task that the National Observatories will implement. The operational plan cover the 12-month period from April 2022 to Mar 2023 (and include activity planned after that, where appropriate). D6.3 Operational Plan for the Pan-European Umbrella ObservatoryThis deliverable describes the operational plan for the Pan-European Umbrella H2O Observatory (EUO). The EUO will coordinate the H2O effort at the European level and ensures standardization a well a interoperability across NOs. More specifically, the EUO will be able to conduct multi-country analysis of this outcome data across several jurisdiction through federated access to the data from the NOs and serve a a common repository for reports, analytical tool and educative material to make it available to the respective stakeholder of the health eco-system. To achieve it mission, the EUO will strive to ensure harmonization and standardization of outcome data, the patient reported outcome (PROs) and patient reported outcome measure (PROMs) used in clinical care within the NO community with the clear intent to adopt a common standardised language for patient and HCPs and to pave the way towards value based health care. Furthermore, it will promote wide-scale adoption of outcomes, and the value of outcome data for a diversity of purposes, such a health care decision, health policy, drug development or digital health innovation. Eventually, it will offer outcome related product and services. Finally, the EUO will be a catalyst for the future growth of the network of NOs. D6.4 Repository of use case of the ObservatoriesThis deliverable outline the potential multipurpose value of the H2O National Observatory (NO). The purpose of this document is to make an inventory of use cases, in order to show what value the NOs could bring. For example; how the H2O NO might create value for patients, healthcare providers, private sector and to the society. This will lead to example to show the range of practical implication and promote their adoption. We aim to do this in two ways; 1) by choosing existing use case that have a strong basis and longer existence with a broader patient population in a country, 2) by making assumption and placing question that are still unanswered on a disease population level. The latter exercise will be continued after submitting the deliverable. In order to compare the use case in the different countries, identify strong asset in knowledge and geographic coverage and eventual gaps, we will follow up the development in the country on the use case with a working group from this deliverable group. It will take more time to analyse all use case and create insight which question have been answered and which one still need effort to answer. D6.5 First annual report on the progress and success of the observatoriesThis deliverable (D6.5) build on the Health outcome observatory (H2O) National Observatory Plan for each Observatory in D6.2 and provides an updated progress report for each National Observatory including successes, hurdles, and current status report covering 2021-2022. It aim to provide a snapshot of the momentary status of the Health Outcomes Observatories. The document begin with a broad overview of the progress gained in establishing four H2O national observatories, a well a how this progress can be anticipated to support the development of the Pan-European observatory. A review of the success and hurdle faced by each observatory is presented. Next, the progress of the observatory collaboration with their local participating center will be summarized. A reporting around the preparedness and readiness for the observatory functioning (i.e. ability to collect, store and call data) is also curated. Ongoing activity for each of the national observatory were collected and reported on, including the relevance of the pilot project and feasibility studies. The pilot project will ass the data flow, storage, and retrieval from the user perspective of querying organization and researchers. The feasibility study will ass the data flow, storage, and retrieval from the patient and HCP user perspectives. There are two essential components, ensuring the H2O observatory work (tech flow validation), and that it work well (usability). Furthermore, updated budgetary consideration are provided in addition to anticipated needs. Finally, an individual status report on observatory progress by country is shown. D6.12 H2O exploitation and sustainability strategyThis document present the plan and initial concept for the H2O sustainability roadmap. Sustainability is vital for the H2O Observatory network and need careful planning because of the innovative nature of the ecosystem it is creating. This innovation focus on providing the capability for multiple stakeholder to gain insight relating to health outcome that can inform decision-making across a broad scale ranging from individual patient through to multinational policy-setting organisation like the WHO and OECD, spanning direct care to individuals, care planning and optimisation, public health and health strategy, research and health technology innovation. This document present an initial qualitative analysis of demand side and supply side perspective and explains how each of these will be investigated in more detail in the coming months. The sustainability plan will progressively shift from qualitative interview and survey style intelligence gathering to quantitative business modelling in which projected cost and projected revenue will be quantified. At the same time, a the delineation of activity across the national and EU level observatories, in compliance to the Data Governance Act (DGA), will become more and solid, this will allow for precision in the business modelling and the respective cost and revenue calculations. This deliverable is therefore the start of a process which will continue throughout the project duration and be periodically reported in later deliverables. WP7 Scientific Coordination & Project Management D7.1 Project HandbookThe deliverable D7.1 Project Handbook describes the management and administrative procedure and principle that will ensure efficient execution of the H2O project and thus contribute to the production of high-quality project results. As the project evolves further over the next 60 months, the handbook will be updated after it submission on a quarterly basis to ensure that the information is coherent with the development of the project. The main objective of the Handbook is to provide an understandable and short reference manual that describes the management structure, tasks, decision-making processes, responsibility and procedure on all level of the project execution. All the information and general principle in the Handbook were taken from the Grant Agreement, the Description of Action and the Consortium Agreement provisions, but it also draw from best practice, IMI2 rule and accepted project management standards. D7.2 Project communication plan and initial tool setCrucial to the project success and it future sustainability is the ability to communicate to external key stakeholders, H2Os vision, objectives, expected impact and important operational aspect regarding the Observatories. To ensure that all relevant target group are properly engaged, and key message properly conveyed in a timely manner and through the right channel and tools, a communication strategy need to be formulated and a plan outlined. The present document lay down H2Os overall communication policy to achieve maximum efficacy and instill the transformational nature of this project and it value for health care. All in all, this report will provide a harmonized approach and shared strategy for all partners, whilst outlining a communication plan. This will reflect the communication objectives, role and responsibilities, target audiences, and activity and tool to support their implementation in a timely basis and in line with the project budget. An initial set of communication material which is already being developed, will also be described. D7.3 Scientific Publication PlanPeer-reviewed publication and presentation on conference are essential to establish credibility and show thought leadership in the scientific community. The deliverable D7.3 Scientific Publication Plan outline the Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) project planned effort to support and promote scientific publication and presentation at conferences. It detail current and anticipated research activity at the time of submission (M12; September 2021) and their associated dissemination through publication and/or presentation. This document will be updated and supplemented a needed with specific publication tactical plan over the duration of the project. The main objective of this document is to provide a guideline and reference for the scientific dissemination of H2Os results. It complement the effort of the Work Packages and the project deliverables, ensuring that project result are disseminated to their fullest potential. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Contact Contact us:Full name * E-Mail * Subject * Message *4 + 4 = ?Please prove that you are human by solving the equation * ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. New SearchIf you are not happy with the result below please do another search Pages Categories Archive ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Privacy Policy PRIVACY POLICY TEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L., a data controller, through the website , guarantee an adequate and consistent level of protection for individual with regard to their personal data, subject to processing by the company, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (679/2016) and the Spanish data protection law Ley Orgnica 3/2018 de proteccin de datos y garanta de los derechos digitales (Spanish Law 3/2018 on data protection and guarantee of digital rights). TEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L., only process personal data with full responsibility and fairness, and in accordance with all legal requirement to ensure full compliance with European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and all other applicable laws. The company have also adopted the appropriate security measure for the protection of the right and freedom of the person concerned. The following is additional and expanded information regarding specific data processing activities, carried out through this website: DATA CONTROLLER Identity:TEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L. Company Vat number:B67574152 Postal address:Recinto Modernista de Sant Pau C/Sant Antoni Mara Claret, 167, 08025 Barcelona (Spain). Contact E-mail: Purpose of the processing of your data, legitimation of the process and conservation AtTEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L., we will process your data for the following purposes: Respond to your request for information through our e-mail and electronic form, legitimized by the consent you give when contacting us: Art 6.1.a) GDPR. Send you our newsletter legitimized by the consent you give when subscribing to it (Art. 6.1.a) GDPR). Once the purpose for which your personal data wa processed ha been fulfilled, the personal data will be destroyed and only those necessary to carry out claim or comply with applicable regulation will be kept. Recipients of your data Your data will not be disclosed to third party in any case, except when there is a legal obligation. Rights of the interested party As a user of this website you have the right to: Request access, rectification, deletion and portability of your personal data a well a to limit the processing of this data. In this case, we will only keep the data strictly necessary to carry out claims. Oppose to the processing of your data whenever you consider these data are no longer necessary for the purpose they were originally collected Withdraw your consent, at any time. To proceed with the exercise of these rights, you must contact u at our e-mail address info@imi-h2o.eu If you consider that your data protection right have been violated, you have the right to file a claim with the Spanish data protection Authority, through it website. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. EORTC and H2O team up for better standardized collection of Patient-Reported Outcomes across Europe22nd April 2024/in /by The Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) and the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer () are delighted to announce a new collaboration to help defining the framework for standardized collection of Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) in the scope of the H2O project and ultimately support the shared effort towards patient-centric healthcare. PROs play a crucial role in shaping the future of healthcare, offering valuable insight into patient health, quality of life, and functional status. They are usually collected by using patient-reported outcome measure (PROMs), tool such a questionnaire that patient are asked to fill in and measure clinical aspect of health. By including a patient perception of it symptoms, quality of life, lack of access to treatment and medicine and more, the patient voice is getting heard and valued. At the same time, it is key to standardize the collection measure to ensure it usability for clinicians, researchers, and the patient themselves. Drawing upon EORTCs largely recognized PROMs and H2Os mission to integrate PROs into healthcare decision-making processes, this partnership promise to facilitate the adoption of standardized PRO collection methodologies, making data collection and access for researcher all over Europe easier and with that improving healthcare for patients. ** About H2O The Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) is a public-private partnership funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative and EFPIA members. Launched in October 2020, H2O endeavour to empower patient and healthcare stakeholder by standardizing the measurement of PROs, thus advancing value-based healthcare initiatives. About EORTC The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) is an academic clinical research organisation, which unites clinical cancer research expert across the globe to define better treatment for cancer patient to prolong their survival and improve their quality of life. Both international and multidisciplinary, EORTCs network comprises of around 3800 collaborator involved in cancer treatment and research in over 1000 institution across 58 countries. Share this entry https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Untitled-design.png 600 2000 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2024-04-22 14:37:072024-04-22 14:38:01EORTC and H2O team up for better standardized collection of Patient-Reported Outcomes across Europe NEWSLETTER Sign up to stay informed Last Name First Name Email Address * Recent Posts ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Leading European Hospitals are embarking on a patient-centric way of providing health care in their clinical practice10th November 2023/in /by Members of the European University Hospital Alliance (EUHA) are rolling out H2O outcome set to collect patient-reported outcome in a standardized way The IMI-funded initiative Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O), focused on collecting Real World Evidence (RWE) and putting the patient in the center, ha been a priority project for EUHA over the last years. Together, we have defined standard for collecting patientreported outcome and testing them in the clinical day-to-day. What ha been a vision for long, is now becoming reality a the project is entering the implementation phase. Among the first to implement H2O outcome set are the Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin and the Medical University of Vienna. Already two clinic within Charit in the area of IBD and diabetes are using the so-called H2O pragmatic sets, aiming at keeping the effort around the collection process itself a low a possible, for patient and clinicians. We know that the standardized collection of patient-reported outcome (PROs) will only work on the long run if both patient and doctor dont see it a a burden but a added value. This is how the pragmatic outcome set are designed and this is how we believe it can work sustainably in the clinical day-to-day., say Prof. Dr. Matthias Rose, Head of the Department of Psychosomatic Medicine at Charit. Also, the Medical University Vienna ha started to use the H2O outcome set in their diabetes clinic for collecting PROs. A major milestone not only for patient and clinicians, but also for researcher all over the world. From a research perspective, with better access to large, standardized data set that bring patient-reported and clinical outcome together we can create a stronger evidence base for healthcare decision-making at all levels., say Univ.-Prof. Dr. Tanja Stamm, H2O scientific coordinator, Head of the Institute for Outcomes Research, Deputy Director of the Center for Medical Data Science at MedUni Vienna and Head of the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Arthritis and Rehabilitation. What two of the leading hospital in Europe started only mark the beginning of the implementation phase of the H2O project. With Vall dHebron Barcelona University Hospital in Spain, Erasmus MC in the Netherlands, University Hospitals Leuven in Belgium, Aarhus University Hospital in Denmark, Karolinska University Hospital in Sweden, Kings College Hospital in the United Kingdom and San Raffaele Hospital in Italy, more EUHA member are in the starting block to follow and make real-world evidence-based decision making and patient empowerment in healthcare a reality. Share this entry https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Screenshot-2023-11-10-141154-e1699622048479.png 274 429 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-11-10 14:12:412023-11-10 14:14:21Leading European Hospitals are embarking on a patient-centric way of providing health care in their clinical practice NEWSLETTER Sign up to stay informed Last Name First Name Email Address * Recent Posts ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. The H2O Whitepaper is out5th October 2023/in , /by Read more about the power of patient-reported outcomes, benefit to patients, a practical model for secure data governance and systemic impact on healthcare in Europe in one comprehensive document. Healthcare system face unprecedented pressure around the globe. Ageing populations, shortage of healthcare professional and funding restriction are creating a threefold set of strains. If we want these system to be sustainable, we must focus our healthcare resource on results. When it come to health, patient-reported outcome must be considered the most important performance indicator. This may sound obvious, but it is not. Tracking patient outcome can be complicated. It requires standardisation of the outcome to be measured and innovative technology to smoothen the process. We at H2O are focused on creating a common language to allow patient and HCPs to share standardised insight on outcomes. Better knowledge of patient-reported outcome and improved communication between patient and healthcare professional (HCPs) can enhance health outcome and enable the optimal allocation of healthcare resource to where these can have the greatest impact. In our latest Whitepaper we showcase how the power of patient-reported outcome can be harnessed to improve patient outcomes, and equally importantly, create synergy across healthcare systems. Digital health is the enabler we need to improve healthcare across the board. Read the full Whitepaper here: Share this entry https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Cover-WP.png 905 640 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-10-05 18:19:312023-10-05 18:38:00The H2O Whitepaper is out NEWSLETTER Sign up to stay informed Last Name First Name Email Address * Recent Posts ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Germany launch H2O Observatory28th September 2023/in /by H2O now also in Germany: The German National Observatory officially launch Berlin, 28.09.2023 Yet another observatory opened up under the IMI-funded H2O umbrella. Also in Germany diverse stakeholder from the private and public sector have joined force to establish a national Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O e.V.). Controlled by patients, real-world finding will be collected in a practical manner including the experience of patients. Like at the other national observatory of H2O, data will be collected in a uniform way to improve communication between patient and physicians, and to make research result more usable. H2O e.V. start at a time when discussion about the renewal of the health care system in Germany are at a peak. Debates about the planned hospital reform, the electronic health record and the rising cost for the statutory health insurance show the need for change. The German offshoot of H2O could contribute to solving these problems. It wa founded by a consortium of respected partner who are committed to positive change in the health care system. Founding member include: Jan Brnneke, project lead BWI IT fr Deutschland GmbH Dagmar Kownatka, former Head of Healthcare Transformation & Value Based Health Care, Roche Diabetes Care GmbH Lisa Otto, H2O project manager, Charit Center for Patient-Centered Outcomes Research (CPCOR) Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin Aliz Rogge, H2O project manager, CPCOR Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin Matthias Rose, H2O Chair, Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin Ariel Stern, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Harvard Business School, Visiting Professor Digital Health Economics and Policy, Hasso-Plattner-Institute Susanne Weinbrenner, Senior Physician & Head, Social Medicine and Rehabilitation Division, Federal German Pension Fund (DRV-Bund) Brbel Shlke, Board of Directors, Zielgenau, Patient-Association Lung Cancer We are pleased to announce the launch of H2O e.V. in Berlin, said Jan Brnneke, project manager at BWI IT for Germany GmbH. By bringing together different expert and stakeholders, we aim to create a platform that drive meaningful change and ultimately improves patient outcomes. Matthias Rose of Charit added: H2O is one of the smartest initiative Ive seen. It is also considered one of the first pilot project to show how the European Health Data Space (EHDS) can work in practice. Brbel Shlke of the patient organisation Zielgenau complemented: H2O e.V. will collaborate with leading research institutions, healthcare organization and public institutions. The goal is to promote standardization of patient-reported outcomes, knowledge exchange and collaboration. The observatory will play an important role in generating evidence that can help health policy and strategy adapt to changing needs. Picture: (From left) Lisa Otto, Jan Brnneke, Matthias Rose, Aliz Rogge, Susanne Weinbrenner Share this entry https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/IMG_0803-1-scaled.jpg 1920 2560 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-09-28 16:00:112023-09-28 16:01:33Germany launch H2O Observatory NEWSLETTER Sign up to stay informed Last Name First Name Email Address * Recent Posts ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Legal notice DISCLAIMER Welcome to H2O website. The H2O Consortium make no warranty or representation of any kind a to the content accuracy, currency or completeness, neither the Consortium, IMI, the European Union, EFPIA nor any party involved in creating, producing or delivering this website shall be liable for any damages, including without limitation, direct, incidental, consequential, indirect or punitive damages, arising out of access to, use of or inability to use this web site, or any error or omission in the content thereof. We strive to maintain all the information a timely and accurate a possible. Should you find incorrect or incomplete data on this website, please inform the webmaster, who will update the information a promptly a possible. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345-2. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. IMI support collaborative research project and build network of industrial and academic expert in order to boost pharmaceutical innovation in Europe. Read more at: PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION Although you can browse through the IMI JU Web Sites without giving any information about yourself, in some cases, personal information is required in order to provide the e-services you request. In such a case, information is treated according to the Privacy Policy described. DATA CONTROLLER INFORMATION TEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L. is the owner of the website with company VAT number: B67574152, with postal address at Recinto Modernista de Sant Pau C/Sant Antoni Mara Claret, 167, 08025 Barcelona (Spain) (TEAMIT). The CONTACT email address is We recommend READING CAREFULLY this legal notice and other policy on our website (and) before using this platform and services. Any use of this website implies the acceptance of all the condition included in these and other legal document and it submission to Spanish legislation at all times, expressly waiving any other jurisdiction. GUARANTEES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TEAMITthrough this website offer information about the project activity and their object, in a generic way. The user access the website voluntarily and expressly acknowledges and accepts responsibility for the use of this website and agrees not to carry out any act that may violate the law or the condition established in these legal terms, in which case he may carry the corresponding responsibility to the legally established. TEAMITreserves the right to make, at any time and without prior notice, modification and update to the information contained on the website, it configuration and presentation and the general conditions, a well a to delete information or temporarily suspend accessibility to the website. TEAMITcannot guarantee: The absence of interruption or error in accessing the website or it content, nor is it responsible for possible technical problem that occur during the internet connection. And it is not responsible for the damage that could derive from interferences, omission or computer virus motivated by cause beyond the owner of the website, a well a damage caused by third party through illegitimate interference or damage to the computer system beyond the control of the owner from the website. The application of it Privacy Policy to access through third party link to this website, or through link from this website to other websites. All third-party link to this website must be made to it main page or, from the outset, with prior authorization and in writing from the owner, and no modification, limitation nor any type of statement may be made by third party on the website. And all third-party link must also comply with rest of the provision of this regulation. If there are link not supervised by TEAMIT, no responsibility will be assumed for the link or content or consequence of the use of such links. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY This website is governed by national and international legislation on intellectual and industrial property. All content included on the website (texts, audio visual content, source code, graphic design, signs, logos, trademarks, databases, computer programs, edition, programming, compilation, and other content necessary for it operation) are property of the H2O Consortium. TEAMIT manages this content on behalf of the Consortium and must not be reproduced in any medium without permission. Any unauthorized use of these content will be considered a breach of intellectual or industrial property right and may give rise to legal consequences. Any content owned by third party included in this website are authorized by their owner for their use and communication and are protected by the corresponding intellectual property right. The simple navigation or use of the website doe not grant in any case license or total or partial transfer of right over intellectual property rights, being expressly prohibited any transmission, reproduction, distribution, public communication or total or partial transformation of the same without prior consent of their holders. LEGAL ADVICE TEAMITguarantees the confidentiality of the personal data that you provide to our platform and the application of the security measure established by the regulations. If you want to know our Privacy Policy click. CONTACT TEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L., will process the data you provide u to be able to manage your contact message and respond to them. You can exercise your data protection right by writing to u at More information about our privacy policy . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. Cookies 1. What are cookies? Cookies are small text file that are stored locally in your Internet browser cache. When you visit the same site again, cooky allow the website to recognize your browser and, a a result, store your user preferences. 2. Types of cooky and their function Proprietary cookies: Sent from equipment of a domain managed by the website owner. Third-party cookies: Sent from equipment or a domain that is not managed by the website owner. Session cookies: Collect data while the user is browsing on the web page. Persistent cookies: Allow accessing data on the user terminal for a time defined by the party responsible for the cookie. Technical cookies: Allow the user to browse a website and use different option or services. Personalization: Allow the user to access the service with certain characteristics. Analytical cookies: Allow tracking and analysing the behaviour of the user of website to which they are linked for the purpose of introducing improvement based on aggregate data. Advertising cookies: Allow managing the editor advertising space based on certain criteria, such a edited or access frequency. 3. List of type of cooky the web page us and their purpose Name Owner Duration Purpose _ga, Google Analytics 2 year It used to track visitor _gid Google Analytics 24 hour Allows the user to see the updated content if they share the web CONSENT Youtube 20 year and 1 month This cookie serf to indicate that the use of it ha been accepted NID Google 6 week This cookie contains an identification that Google us to remember your preference and other information, such a the chosen language. The use of cooky may be turned off by setting the option of the browser installed in your equipment. We hereby inform you that disabling the use of cooky may affect the feature on our website. Internet Explorer 9 Chrome MozillaFirefox Safari You may define the setting of the cooky you have accepted by clicking 4. Identification of party responsible for the cooky and for processing the data obtained The party responsible for the proprietary cooky and for processing the data obtained will be TEAM IT RESEARCH, S.L. (TEAMIT). The contact email is:. The third party responsible for third-party cooky are Google, Google Analytics, Youtube. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. STRENGTHENING THE PATIENT VOICE IN HEALTH CARE The Health Outcomes Observatory project (H2O) brings together the public and private sector to create an unprecedented, standardised data governance and infrastructure system across Europe to incorporate patient experience and preference in decision affecting their individual health care and those of the entire patient community. With H2O infrastructure and tools, patient will be able to measure their outcome in a standardised way, whilst keeping full control of their data. Ultimately, this framework of Observatories aim to foster innovation in health care in Europe and beyond todeliver better outcome for all. H2O vision Data governed and managed by the Health Outcomes Observatories will be accessed by patient and their health care provider to promote a richer and fruitful dialogue between patient and health care professional based on meaningful information. H2O aim to create a robust data governance model that give patient control of their data and enables ethical, secure analysis of the data when patient consent to this, in the interest of society, science and patient care. Standardised and structured health data will be available for analysis in order to: enhance health research prospect promote the development of new treatment that reflect outcome reported by patient sustain more efficient healthcare system Sign up to stay informed. We will only process your data to deliver our quarterly update to your inbox. Please visit our or contact u at for more information. Email Address * First Name Last Name Latest news https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Untitled-design.png 600 2000 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2024-04-22 14:37:072024-04-22 14:38:01EORTC and H2O team up for better standardized collection of Patient-Reported Outcomes across Europe https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Screenshot-2023-11-10-141154-e1699622048479.png 274 429 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-11-10 14:12:412023-11-10 14:14:21Leading European Hospitals are embarking on a patient-centric way of providing health care in their clinical practice https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Cover-WP.png 905 640 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-10-05 18:19:312023-10-05 18:38:00The H2O Whitepaper is out https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/IMG_0803-1-scaled.jpg 1920 2560 Judith Lancaster https://health-outcomes-observatory.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/H2O-logo-hor-300x98.png Judith Lancaster2023-09-28 16:00:112023-09-28 16:01:33Germany launch H2O Observatory Twitter ACKNOWLEDGEMENT H2O ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945345. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and Trial Nation and JDRF. DISCLAIMER: this website reflects only the author view. Neither IMI, nor EFPIA, nor the European Commission, nor the JU are liable for any use that may be made of the information it contains. About IMI The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a partnership between the European Union and the European pharmaceutical industry, represented by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). It work to improve health by speeding up the development of the next generation of medicines, particularly in area where there is an unmet medical or social need. It work by facilitating collaboration between the key player involved in health research, including universities, research centres, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs), patient organisations, and medicine regulators. IMI wa the world biggest public-private partnership (PPP) in the life science until it successor, the Innovative Health Initiative (IHI), wa established in 2021. There are various THC detox treatment available, including home cures. A natural cleanse will take the most time, but it will be the most effective and comprehensive detox method. Most natural detoxification procedure are simple to implement and may be used in tandem to achieve the optimum effects. Making these adjustments, whether in detox mode or not, can lead to healthy living patterns. Detoxification is one of the most important way to prepare your body for a painless drug test. However, in order to completely detoxify and prepare your body, you must first understand how most drug test work. THC Detox beverage are promoted for their capacity to temporarily flush THC out of the body on the of ingestion. Most detox beverage only work for a few hours. Nonetheless, these detox beverage might enhance your body's natural detoxification process. A drug test may be dumped on you abruptly, leaving you with no time to cleanse your system before the test. In such case, to pas a urin drug test is to use synthetic urine to pas the test. Assume you're a light marijuana user with a thin layer of marijuana metabolite concentration in your hair and scalp. In that situation, apple cider vinegar may aid in your drug test successNewsletter Sign up to stay informed. We will process your data to deliver our quarterly update to your inbox. Please visit our or contact u at Your email First name Last name Non exempt cookies, proprietary cooky and third-party cooky are used to identify the browsing preference and habit of user and to offer a better experience. Please consult our cookie policy Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet.