independent alliance of leading healthcare and research organisation united to establish best practice for the ethical use of UK health data for research at scale. We develop and co-ordinate the adoption of tools, techniques, conventions, technologies, and design that enable the use of health data in a trustworthy and ethical way for research and innovation. We aim to accelerate progress in health and care by encouraging widespread and responsible access to structured and unstructured clinical, administrative, imaging, genomic and other molecular data. Through the development and sharing of best practice, and by earning trust in health data use, the Alliance aim to maximise research potential and ensure it benefit a many people across the UK a possible. Search The Alliance celebrates 5 years! Explore some of the Alliances key success to-date Welcome to the UK Health Data Research Alliance An independent alliance of leading healthcare and research organisation united to establish best practice for the ethical use of UK health data for research at scale. Become a member of the Alliance Join over 100 leading healthcare and research organisation on a mission to accelerate improvement in biomedicine, health and care through the trustworthy and responsible use of health data for research and innovation. Five year of the Alliance: the story so far The UK Health Data Research Alliance is marking five remarkable year of progress and commitment to maximising the benefit of health data research for all. Our Impact The Alliance aim to become an internationally recognised and influential network that enables and demonstrates trustworthy use of health-related data for research and innovation. What our member are saying "The pharmaceutical industry relies on access to anonymised health data to develop new medicine and vaccines, enable patient to have access to them and ensure they are effective and safe once in routine NHS use. Configuring the UK health data ecosystem to facilitate research, whilst safeguarding patient confidentiality, is a goal shared by the whole research community, including ABPI members" Dr Janet Valentine, Executive Director of Innovation and Research Policy at ABPI Our Work Explore the workstreams of the Alliance: Latest News News announcement 24 April 2024 Today, we are delighted to announce that three more organisation have signed up to join the Alliance. News announcement 24 April 2024 Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) is launching a funding call to establish a co-ordination centre for a pilot real-world evidence network that will utilise data gathered from multiple UK sources. Opinion 27 February 2024 From it founding principle to embracing international standards, we look back on five incredible year of partnership and impact from the UK Health Data Research Alliance. Featured Members Get in touch We're keen to hear from you if you have ideas, question or comment - including if you would like to discus opportunity to collaborate with us. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search The Alliance celebrates 5 years! Explore some of the Alliances key success to-date Welcome to the UK Health Data Research Alliance An independent alliance of leading healthcare and research organisation united to establish best practice for the ethical use of UK health data for research at scale. Become a member of the Alliance Join over 100 leading healthcare and research organisation on a mission to accelerate improvement in biomedicine, health and care through the trustworthy and responsible use of health data for research and innovation. Five year of the Alliance: the story so far The UK Health Data Research Alliance is marking five remarkable year of progress and commitment to maximising the benefit of health data research for all. Our Impact The Alliance aim to become an internationally recognised and influential network that enables and demonstrates trustworthy use of health-related data for research and innovation. What our member are saying "The pharmaceutical industry relies on access to anonymised health data to develop new medicine and vaccines, enable patient to have access to them and ensure they are effective and safe once in routine NHS use. Configuring the UK health data ecosystem to facilitate research, whilst safeguarding patient confidentiality, is a goal shared by the whole research community, including ABPI members" Dr Janet Valentine, Executive Director of Innovation and Research Policy at ABPI Our Work Explore the workstreams of the Alliance: Latest News News announcement 24 April 2024 Today, we are delighted to announce that three more organisation have signed up to join the Alliance. News announcement 24 April 2024 Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) is launching a funding call to establish a co-ordination centre for a pilot real-world evidence network that will utilise data gathered from multiple UK sources. Opinion 27 February 2024 From it founding principle to embracing international standards, we look back on five incredible year of partnership and impact from the UK Health Data Research Alliance. Featured Members Get in touch We're keen to hear from you if you have ideas, question or comment - including if you would like to discus opportunity to collaborate with us. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search The Alliance celebrates 5 years! Explore some of the Alliances key success to-date Welcome to the UK Health Data Research Alliance An independent alliance of leading healthcare and research organisation united to establish best practice for the ethical use of UK health data for research at scale. Become a member of the Alliance Join over 100 leading healthcare and research organisation on a mission to accelerate improvement in biomedicine, health and care through the trustworthy and responsible use of health data for research and innovation. Five year of the Alliance: the story so far The UK Health Data Research Alliance is marking five remarkable year of progress and commitment to maximising the benefit of health data research for all. Our Impact The Alliance aim to become an internationally recognised and influential network that enables and demonstrates trustworthy use of health-related data for research and innovation. What our member are saying "The pharmaceutical industry relies on access to anonymised health data to develop new medicine and vaccines, enable patient to have access to them and ensure they are effective and safe once in routine NHS use. Configuring the UK health data ecosystem to facilitate research, whilst safeguarding patient confidentiality, is a goal shared by the whole research community, including ABPI members" Dr Janet Valentine, Executive Director of Innovation and Research Policy at ABPI Our Work Explore the workstreams of the Alliance: Latest News News announcement 24 April 2024 Today, we are delighted to announce that three more organisation have signed up to join the Alliance. News announcement 24 April 2024 Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) is launching a funding call to establish a co-ordination centre for a pilot real-world evidence network that will utilise data gathered from multiple UK sources. Opinion 27 February 2024 From it founding principle to embracing international standards, we look back on five incredible year of partnership and impact from the UK Health Data Research Alliance. Featured Members Get in touch We're keen to hear from you if you have ideas, question or comment - including if you would like to discus opportunity to collaborate with us. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search About u Welcome to the UK Health Data Research Alliance an independent alliance of leading healthcare and research organisation united to establish best practice for the ethical use of UK health data for research at scale. Five year of partnership and impact from the UK Health Data Research Alliance (image credit: Nada Karrar). Our mission Our mission is to is to accelerate improvement in biomedicine, health and care by encouraging widespread and responsible use of health-relevant data in a trustworthy, ethical way for research and innovation. This is based on three goals: We also aim to achieve international recognition and influence a a network that enables and demonstrates trustworthy use of health-related data for research and innovation. Our Work We enable health data research by developing and driving adoption of standards, tools, processes, capability and information governance approaches. The Alliance doe this by bringing expert community together to drive consensus around best practice and publishing recommendation and papers. Our focus is on: Trust and Transparency Ensuring community contribute to streamline and simplify data access while earning public trust in the use of data. Technology Services Building a cross-sector community to co-develop technology and tool for research data infrastructure. Data Standards Developing standard and facilitating adoption of existing standard for interoperability and usability of data and seeking agreement on best practice for data curation, management and analysis. Capacity Building Identifying skill gap in the healthcare sector and influencing change for improving education and professional development. Our Principles for Participation We have a growing membership of more than 100 leading research and healthcare organisation from all four UK nations. Organisations involved in the Alliance, or it programmes, sign up to nine principle agreeing to: Demonstrate active and ongoing engagement with patient and the public. Encourage the availability and use of health and care data for research and innovation that serf public interest. Promote the protection of privacy and data security, including providing access to sensitive data through Secure Data Environments. Make data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable (FAIR) by adopting the guidelines. Take a proportionate approach to data access governance based on the framework. Maximise the benefit for research and innovation through non-preferential access to data. Establish mutually beneficial way of working in partnership. Work collaboratively to increase harmonisation and reduce the complexity of data sharing arrangements. Contribute to a joined-up, UK-wide offer for researchers. Our Structure The Alliance is convened by Health Data Research UK. Set up in 2019, it ha been established a a member-led network of partner with a robust governance structure designed to be effective, inclusive and transparent. The main element are: Our Impact Our impact and influence are extensive and growing. Achievements in our first five year included: recommending guideline for data sharing and linkage practice within TREs (also known a Secure Data Environments or SDEs) established the blueprint for trustworthy data access, linkage and research. Its influence on Data Access Policy within the NHS is seen in publication and implementation guidance. for improving transparency in the use of health data have led to a rise in the number of custodian publishing information on how their datasets are used, by whom and for what purpose. Our member agree to adopt the FAIR principle for data management and stewardship when joining. Most data custodian in the Alliance, now publish metadata on , which serf a a portal for data discovery and access. NHS England ha also pledged to use the Gateway a the single front door for the . Work with u We are striving to broaden our membership among health data research stakeholder and to deepen and strengthen existing partnerships. or complete the form below to find out more. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Who we are The Alliance Executive Committee The Alliance Executive Committees purpose is to provide strategic leadership of the Alliance and to ensure it activity are in alignment with strategy across all area of the health data ecosystem. It is responsible to the Alliance membership, represented through the Alliance Council. The Committee is chaired by David Seymour, HDR UKs Director of Infrastructure and Services and includes individual representing the diversity of Alliance member organisation and strategic partners: The Alliance Secretariat The secretariat run Alliance operation and convenes working groups, a prioritised by it member organisations. Paola Quattroni, Head of Alliance Strategy and Engagement lead the secretariat and is supported by several colleagues: Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search How we operate Our History The UK Health Data Research Alliance wa established in February 2019, a a member-led network of data providers, custodian and curator to accelerate improvement in biomedicine, health and care by encouraging widespread and responsible use of health-relevant data in a trustworthy, ethical way for research and innovation. It took inspiration from other global alliances, such a the and the who unite international community to develop framework and standard around best practice. The Letter of Intent The Alliance constitution is set out in the signed by all organisation joining the Alliance. The Letter outline the background of the Alliance, the founding and operating principle and the composition and governance of the Alliance. The of the Alliance provide a framework of collaborative and open working practices, drawing from national and international best practice framework and recommendations, including the for scientific data management and the Five Safe framework. Alliance consultation and change to governance In March 2023, a full review of the Alliance governance wa carried out by the secretariat, along with an extensive consultation with Alliance member and partners. Following this, several key change were approved by the Board: Alliance membership extended to non-data custodian complementary group and organisations, such a Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement groups, Industry Trade Associations, funders, regulatory bodies. An Alliance Executive Committee representative of the membership wa established. The Alliance Board and associated convening role will be maintained through an Alliance Council. The Alliance and will continue to underpin the Alliance ethos and will be updated to reflect the agreed changes. Our Structure The Alliance is convened by Health Data Research UK and ha a robust governance structure designed to be effective, inclusive and transparent. The main element are: Alliance Executive Committee The Executive Committee wa established in September 2023 to shape the strategy and development of the Alliance, a well a guide improvement in the area of technology service ecosystems, trust and transparency, data usability and capacity building. The Committee ensure that Alliance activity are in alignment with strategy across all area of the health data ecosystem. It is responsible to the Alliance membership, represented through the Alliance Council. The Committee is chaired by , HDR UKs Director of Infrastructure and Services and includes individual representing the diversity of Alliance member organisation and strategic partners. Find out more about the individual on the Committee . Alliance Council The Alliance Council convenes representative from Alliance member organisation from all over the UK, each of which brings experience in domain relevant to it mission along with an outstanding record of and commitment to serving the public good. The Alliance Council ratifies recommendation and proposal developed by the Alliance Executive Committee and through relevant work area steering groups. Meeting Reports and Outputs Alliance Executive Committee Type of Output Publication Date Alliance Executive Committee 3rd Meeting Summary 16.04.2024 04.12.2023 14.09.2023 Alliance Council 17.01.2024 10.10.2023 13.07.2023 28.04.2023 26.01.2023 14.10.2022 20.07.2022 12.04.2022 26.01.2022 20.10.2021 14.07.2021 27.04.2021 21.01.2021 Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Members The UK Health Data Research Alliance (the Alliance) is an independent alliance of leading healthcare and research organisation united to establish best practice for the ethical use of UK health data for research at scale. Its member include organisation representing national organisations, NHS trusts, research institute and charities. Together the member offer an exceptional opportunity to provide access to rich and diverse health data for research and innovation, in particular via the . Research based on data that reflects diversity of culture, healthcare condition and aspect such a race, ethnicity, gender and age improves the ability to generalise result and enables new discovery and understanding about disease. In turn this provides fairer and more equal access to the latest treatment and medical technologies, benefiting a many people across the UK a possible. By working in partnership, the member of the Alliance are developing and co-ordinating the adoption of tools, techniques, conventions, technologies, and design that enable the use of health data in a trustworthy and ethical way for research and innovation. The aim is to help researcher to answer some of the most difficult question and address the most important health challenge faced in the UK. Senior leader from partner organisation join the Alliance Council to provide oversight and direction of the Alliance. Alliance Council meeting take place every quarter and are chaired by , HDR UKs Director. Meeting minute from past Alliance Council meeting can be viewed View all Academic centre Charity or social enterprise Cohorts and biobanks Healthcare provider National agency or public body Programme Investment Public and/or patient advocacy group Research Data Service Research funder Research Support Service Trade Association Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Work The UK Health Data Research Alliance develops and co-ordinate the adoption of tools, techniques, conventions, technologies, and design that enable the use of health data in a trustworthy and ethical way for research and innovation. The Alliance ha established a number of delivery sub-groups. For further detail on individual sub groups, please see below. Trust and Transparency We are working to harmonise and simplify data access for healthcare research and to earn public trust in the use of their data. The issue of information governance and public confidence are closely linked and have been brought together by the Alliance in a single Trust and Transparency workstream. Data Standards Achieving widespread adoption of internationally recognise data standard across the UK is at the core of the Alliances mission. Data standard are crucial to the success of health data science, providing consistency, comparability and reproducibility across diverse data asset and enabling robust and reliable research across different region and countries. Developing Technology Services The aim of this workstream is to support the convening of a network of technologist across the NHS, academia, policy and industry to align efforts, share tools, collaborate on shared components, drive adoption of recognised standard and accelerate trustworthy data use for research and innovation. This workstream also support the continued development of the Health Data Research Innovation Gateway (the Gateway), a portal for data discovery and access. Capacity Building The Alliance and it member are striving to build capacity in health data research. While there are ongoing initiative tackling skill gap in data science, more work is needed to ensure the UK ha the skilled and representative workforce it need to flourish. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Trust and Transparency We are working to harmonise and simplify data access for healthcare research and to earn public trust in the use of their data. The issue of information governance and public confidence are closely linked and have been brought together by the Alliance in a single Trust and Transparency workstream. The Challenge Researchers often state that the difficulty in accessing data is the main barrier to their projects. Other major obstacle include lack of standardisation and transparency in the access process and for the use of data. Tackling this problem would allow faster, better research speeding up advance in healthcare. At the same time public involvement need to be baked into health data research at all level and stages. This help guarantee that research is in the public interest and reassures people that data is being used responsibly and for their benefit. The Solution The , which represents data custodians, policymakers and public contributor across the four UK nations, is a sub-group of the Alliance and ha been set up to simplify and streamline data access governance processes. The Steering Group ha set up Action Forces around transparency standards, mapping data access processes, developing template contract for data ingres and data access via Trusted Research Environments (TREs) and exploring the challenge in international data access. A strategic partnership ha been formed with the Public Engagement in Data Research Initiative () to develop and spread public involvement and engagement (PIE) best practice among data custodians. The partnership is focussed on exploring PIE priority and embedding good practice, addressing resource information gap for researcher and PIE professionals, listening to the public and acting on their concerns. Action Forces and working group Improving Transparency in Data Use A data use register (also known a a data release register or list of approved projects) offer the public a clear record of how their data is being used, by whom and for what purpose. In March 2022, the Alliance established a working group to help ensure that clear, consistent and standardised public record are regularly published on data use to demonstrate the value and benefit of using health data. The group ha produced recommendation for a to be adopted by organisation responsible for the safe sharing of data used for research and innovation. Transparency Standards for Data Access and Adoption of the Five Safes Best practice (co-developed with HDR UKs Public Advisory Board ()) have been published. These offer guidance on providing information to the public and researcher about data access processes. Grants have been awarded to help organisation adopt the standards. The group the consultation on Information Commissioners Offices () draft guidance on transparency in the health and social care sector. Mapping Data Governance Processes The group aim is to create a single map of the ethic and governance approval needed to access administrative and heath data from TREs across the UK. It ha produced a data access map detailing the approval process to access data held by Trusted Research Environments () in each of the home nations. There is also a comparison tool showing each step of the access process in more detail and giving access to advice and guidance. TRE Legal Toolkit The action force is working to define the data protection role and responsibility of all party involved in TRE data access and to streamline contractual arrangements, so that research in the public benefit is not delayed unnecessarily in the legal review process, whilst robust and standardised control are upheld. The aim is to produce a toolkit of template resource to speed up contracting and ensure all party are aware of their obligations. A paper on the principle underpinning data access ha been published and a template (DAA) is now available. Five Safes This action force is promoting the adoption and use of the Alliances Five Safes data access form, which simplifies the data access application process. It work to overcome challenge and provide training on use of the form. It is also developing transparency standard for Alliance members. International Data Access This group is focused on the legal challenge relating to international data sharing and it aim is to produce output to drive clarity in this area. For more information about this group and other action force contact Using Linked Data for Research The Alliance organised a series of workshop to address the challenge and opportunity associated with utilising linked data for health research in the UK. These session aimed to improve accessibility to linked data, streamline data access processes, and enhance collaboration among stakeholder in the UK health data ecosystem. Alliance member and other contributor are now working with workshop participant to produce an opinion piece to call out for action to maximise the use of linked data for research, moving towards more streamlined and transparent data access mechanisms, with better guidance, resources, and legal toolkits for researchers. . Recommendations and Outputs Output Type Publication Name Date Published Transparency in data access and use Aug-2023 Jan-2022 TRE Legal Toolkit Oct-2023 Oct-2023 Mapping Data Governance Processes Oct-2023 PEDRI-Alliance Partnership Dec-2023 Meeting Reports Oct-2023 Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Data Standards Achieving widespread adoption of internationally recognised data standard across the UK is at the core of the Alliances mission. Data standard are crucial to the success of health data science, providing consistency, comparability and reproducibility across diverse data asset and enabling robust and reliable research across different region and country However, the healthcare, research and data infrastructure is complex and fragmented frequently lacking common standard and practices. Our focus is to facilitate the adoption of existing standards, for interoperability and usability of health-related data, only developing new standard where there is a clear unmet need. We work in collaboration with our member to achieve agreement on, and drive the adoption of, best practice for data curation, management, and analysis. This is essential to our objective ofmaximising the trustworthy use of health data for the benefit of the public. Our approach One of our principal mechanism for the community development and evaluation ofdata standard is the Data Officers Group, chaired by, Professor of Digital Health, at University of Leeds, honorary consultant in medical oncology at Leeds Teaching Hospitals and Chief Clinical Data Officer at HDR UK. The Data Officers Group includes representative from Alliance member and partner organisation across the UK and address key challenge in data curation, quality and management identifying available solutions, and agreeing action and priorities. There are currently three priority area of work: Promoting and enabling adoption of the Observational Medical Outcome Partnership (OMOP) Common Data Model. :Focusing on recommendation for ethnicity coding standards. : Exploring data-enabled clinical trials. if youre interested in joining these group or to propose new area of work. Recommendations and Outputs The Alliance is shaping data standard in many ways. Its paper and publication include: Output Type Publication Name Date Published Data Officers Group Meeting Reports Sep-2023 Jan-2024 Data Usability Nov-2021 Jun-2021 Jun-2020 Data Discovery Mar-2021 Nov-2020 Nov-2019 Outputs from the work on common data model can be found Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Developing Technology Services The aim of this workstream is to support the convening of a network of technologist across the NHS, academia, policy and industry to align efforts, share tools, collaborate on shared components, drive adoption of recognised standard and accelerate trustworthy data use for research and innovation. This workstream also support the continued development of the , a portal for data discovery and access. The Challenge Despite significant progress in recent years, access to and analysis of health data for research remains a lengthy and fragmented process. There are many technology solution available to support researchers, including software programmes, tools, scripts, pipelines, platforms, and code, but they are dispersed across many organisation and group working within this space, and there often limited sharing and re-use of the solution developed across the wider community. The Solution We are bringing together all these individual component through the convening of a technology ecosystem, embedding a collaborative approach to co-create novel solution that promote open science and encourage interoperability. This will allow health data science to scale at a greater pace than ever before; transforming how researcher access and analyse health data and enabling them to rapidly deliver patient and public benefit. The role of the Alliance One of the Principles for Participation that member organisation agree to when joining the Alliance is adopting the for scientific data management and stewardship. Alliance member are involved in development of key Gateway functions, a well a providing information on the datasets which can be discovered on the Gateway, and participate in specific initiative and working group to inform implementation of policy and technology standards. : Launched in 2020 a part of the Digital Innovation Hub Programme, the Gateway is a central location to discover health data and other resource vital for research. Alliance member are encouraged to publish metadata on the Gateway, which serf a a portal for dataset discovery and requesting access. Currently, 51% of Alliance member who function a data custodian share their metadata on the Gateway. NHS Englands Data for R&D Programme ha pledged to utilise the Gateway a the for the NHS Research SDE Network. This initiative is expected to further enhance the discoverability and accessibility of NHS data. Contact to support with testing and co-development of the Gateway. : One of the most influential output of the Alliance to date ha been the . This paper established the blueprint for trustworthy data access, linkage and research within the health sector and beyond. The document ha been accessed over 11,000 time and it influence, alongside the Goldacre Review, on Data Access Policy within the NHS in England is evident through publication and implementation guidance. : The Researcher Registry is one of the which aim to simplify decision-making process when granting researcher access to sensitive health and administrative data. In line with the Safe People principle, the aim is for a common standard and consistency across organisations, along with confidence in the accuracy of the data, to reduce the burden for both TREs/SDEs and researchers, enabling simpler, faster, more reliable decision-making. The Alliance is key to the development and wider adoption of the common standard. Contact to get involved or learn more about this project. : HDR UK ha developed the a an implementation of the Alliance , to provide a best practice example of how information of approved data us is shared and managed, and support data custodian to meet the principle of transparency, a outlined in the . To date, over 1000 data us have been added to the Gateway data use register. Contact to discus implementation of the data use register standard. Recommendations and Outputs The Alliance is supporting the findability, accessibility, interoperability and reusability of data through the development of various tool and standards. Its paper and publication include: Output Type Publication Type Date Published Transparency of access and data use Feb 2022 Jan 2022 Jan 2022 Data Standards Nov 2021 Jun 2021 Jun 2020 Data Utility Nov 2020 Nov 2020 Metadata Specification Feb 2022 Nov 2019 Trusted Research Environments Dec 2021 Jul 2020 Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Capacity Building The Alliance and it member are striving to build capacity in health data research. While there are ongoing initiative tackling skill gap in data science, more work is needed to ensure the UK ha the skilled and representative workforce it need to flourish. There are several Alliance member organisation already involved in capacity-building initiatives, including: provides a catalogue of data source along with essential information that researcher need to know, such a security requirements, use restrictions, access requirements, timescales, to help researcher navigate their way through these factors. The aim to improve health outcome by enabling those who commission, deliver and receive healthcare to measure and improve our healthcare services. They provide an online or , which includes free to use education package on subject related to clinical audit and to healthcare quality improvement, and is a leader in educational design, delivery and quality assurance. Utilising the very best in technology enabled learning, organisational and leadership development, workforce and learning analytics and digital development, across the entire health and social care workforce and in every community in Scotland. The challenge Health data research face a serious skill shortage, which hamper the UKs ambition to be a world leader in the field. The shift from the model of data release to data access via trusted research environment (TREs), ha led to a growing demand for building capability to manage TREs, along with an increasing need to carry out federated analyses. There is also a gap in more general data management skills, such a data curation and pseudonymization, which need to be addressed. At the same time there is serious under-representation of some socio-economic group for example from Black people. A diverse workforce, representative of the population it serves, is better equipped to carry out the research needed to improve healthcare and encourage innovation. Health data research is also a new and swiftly developing area, so it is essential to identify and fill skill gap by providing ready access to high quality learning and training so people can enter the field or progress their careers. The solution Capacity Building is a core workstream for the Alliance with a focus on addressing skill gap influencing change for improvement in education and professional development. Black Internship Programme We work collaboratively on valuable initiative like the HDR UK (BIP), aimed at addressing the skill gap in emerging black data scientists. Data Scientists Many Alliance member have acted a BIP hosts, offering paid summer placement that empower talented and motivated people to kickstart their careers. To date, 31% of the Alliance membership have hosted at least one intern. This joint initiative between the Alliance and HDR UK provides intern with hand on experience in carrying out a practical real-world project. It also give host access to a pool of excellent potential recruit from diverse backgrounds. If you are interested in becoming a BIP host organisation please contact . TRE Capabilities The Alliance is also interested in exploring and identifying the requirement in skills, training and knowledge across TREs and Alliance data custodian to ensure they have the appropriate capability to meet the ongoing challenge and change to technology in this sector. Contact u to get involved in shaping this workstream. Training Courses Alliance member contribute to the development of the online training and learning platform, by providing expertise and co-producing useful resource and videos. HDR UK Futures offer expert-led bite-sized video-based course in a wide range of subjects, so people can study wherever and whenever they like. Futures along with the other opportunity (from apprenticeships, internships, scholarship and fellowship to online and in-person courses) enable health data science professional to continually update their skill and knowledge. Our members, and their staff, also benefit from a wide range of professional development training and learning event and activities, many are . To keep in touch with the latest training and learning opportunity sign up for the monthly HDR UK Study and Train . Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Alliance Outputs Read the outputs, impact and paper from across the Alliance. The Alliance ha created alignment around data custodian standards, each with buy-in from the member organisations. These standard are fundamental to enabling a collaborative and coordinated approach to health data across the UK, and include: Usable Data 12 October 2023 February 2022 November 2021 June 2021 March 2021 November 2020 June 2020 November 2019 Trust and Transparency February 2022 January 2022 January 2022 July 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 Technology Services December 2021 July 2020 Capacity Building July 2021 Alliance Board & Council meeting Jan 2020 - Current Alliance Community Bulletin Jan 2023 - Current Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search News & Events Use the filter below to search for your relevant news and events.If you would like to submit any news story or events, please . News & Events Warning You seem to have JavaScript disabled! Filters and search might not work correctly without it. Results for '' Apply filter Clear filter Latest first Oldest first AZ News announcement 24 April 2024 Today, we are delighted to announce that three more organisation have signed up to join the Alliance. News announcement 24 April 2024 Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) is launching a funding call to establish a co-ordination centre for a pilot real-world evidence network that will utilise data gathered from multiple UK sources. Opinion 27 February 2024 From it founding principle to embracing international standards, we look back on five incredible year of partnership and impact from the UK Health Data Research Alliance. News story 27 February 2024 The UK Health Data Research Alliance is marking five remarkable year of progress and commitment to maximising the benefit of health data research for all. News story 23 January 2024 HDR UK welcome the Information Commissioners Office's (ICO) draft guidance on transparency in the health and social care sector. News 23 January 2024 Today, we are delighted to announce that seven more organisation have signed up to join the Alliance to support it goal of championing the responsible use of health relevant data for research at scale. News announcement 30 October 2023 A new initiative launched by Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) and funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC) will enable member of the UK Health Data Research Alliance and other custodian of health data to improve the transparency of process for accessing health datasets for research. News 17 October 2023 This month, the UK Health Data Research Alliance demonstrates it mission to continue expanding and diversifying by welcoming seven new member and for the first time, two patient and public representative bodies. Opinion 2 October 2023 Personal reflection from two key contributor to the delivery and success of this pioneering programme. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Join the Alliance The UK Health Data Research Alliance is anindependent alliance of data providers, custodian and curatorsdedicated to improving human health by maximising the potential of multiple form of data at scale. We are an Alliance of leading health, care and research organisation united to accelerate progress in understanding cause of disease, public health, clinical trial andfront line care by enabling widespread access to different modality of data such a clinical, administrative, imagingand genomicand other molecular data, at UK-wide scale. In order to achieve this goal, theUK Allianceorganisations will work collectively to: Bring together the research, clinical, and disease advocacy community and the private sector to support and promote the responsible sharing of health data for research and innovation. Collaborate to create a versatile information platform that is open and accessible, and provides common standards, format and tool to stakeholder in the health data research community. Publish a series of Green and White paper on key work area for consultation and to help shape development to create a responsible and ethical infrastructure for health data research and innovation in the UK. Grow the Alliance., it is imperative that, over time, the UK Health Data Research Alliance grows to include a many custodian of data relevant to our research and innovation a possible. By becoming a memberof the UKHealth Data Research Allianceyour organisation will benefit by: Actively shaping the design and delivery of a UK-wide federated health data research landscape Being part of a single, powerful voice to address common barrier to the scale-up and adoption of health data research innovation Retaining freedom to develop new product and services, with a focus on collaboration at the interface We ask that all member of the UK Health Data Research Alliance: Contribute substantially to the capability and capacity of the UK Health Data Research Alliance by contributing expertise and helpingtoshape the regulatory environment Encourage the availability and use of data for research and innovation through the Demonstrate the principle of transparency by publishing a register of active project accessing the data under their custodianship and accepting new data access request via the Gateway. For more information on joining the UK Health Data Research Alliance, please review the and the . To express your interest in becoming a member, please complete the below form and the team will be in touch shortly: Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Find out more about the Alliance workstreams: Health Data Research service and onboarding (PPIE) Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | BREATHE BREATHE is the Health Data Research Hub for Respiratory Health. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Lancashire & South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust Lancashire & South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust (LSCFT) provides health and wellbeing service for the whole of Lancashire and South Cumbria with a population of around 1.8 million people. The Trust specialises in secure, perinatal, inpatient and community mental health and learning disability services, including service for child and young people. Additional service provided include, community nursing, health visiting and a range of therapy services. Wellbeing service provided include smoking cessation and healthy lifestyle services. Care and support is provided in a range of settings. Service provision is delivered to meet the physical and mental health need of the local population. The Trust ha 25 CQC registered locations. Chris Oliver, Chief Executive, Lancashire & South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust says:Lancashire & South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust are extremely excited to join the UK Health Data Research Alliance. By working with the Alliance we hope to develop and facilitate novel, national-level research and development activity through provision of access to routinely collected mental health data. Membership will clearly help u in our effort to build collaboration that enable innovative use of data science to significantly advance our knowledge of and treatment for mental health conditions, ultimately leading to major improvement in services. Datasets As a Trust, we collect aggregated monthly data in line with the two key nationally mandated data set of the Mental Health Services Data Set (MHSDS) and Community Services Data Set (CSDS). These datasets form the basis of the majority of data analysis within LSCFT, but further bespoke datasets with additional aggregated data (including aggregated data related to service users) is frequently produced.Our growing portfolio of research that utilises various type of routine data includes project that are focused on study of access to mental health services, young people and child mental health care, palliative care, relationship between physical and mental health, alcohol use and mental health, and inequalities. Further Information Visit: Facebook: Twitter: Instagram: YouTube: Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) is a real-world research service supporting retrospective and prospective public health and clinical studies. CPRD is jointly sponsored by theMedicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agencyand theNational Institute for Health Research, a part of the Department of Health and Social Care. CPRD collect de-identified patient data from a network of GP practice across the UK. Primary care data are linked to a range of other health related data to provide a longitudinal, representative UK population health dataset. CPRD data are used worldwide by regulators, academic and industry researchers, resulting in more than 2,300 peer-reviewed publications. Datasets The CPRD database hold anonymised data on more than 40 million patients, including 13million currently registered patients. These primary care health record from approximately 20% of the UK population are updated every day. CPRD data can be routinely linked to 17 secondary care and other health and area-based datasets. Further Information Find out how research using CPRD data ha informed drug safety guidance and clinical practice at . For more information about CPRDs high quality data and world-leading research service visit Call: 020 3080 6383 Follow: X (formerly Twitter) Work that CPRD ha been involved in: Project Alliance member are committed to being transparent around their governance process for accessing data and the approved us of that data. As such, publishing a register of projects, study and organisation that have used data under their custodianship is a vital demonstration of this. The work of the Alliance... News story 31 July 2020 The UK Health Data Research Alliance Board agreed to move beyond the Green Paper phase of the Trusted Research Environment (TRE) programme at it meeting on 23 July 2020. We are now pleased to publish our updated paper which is the result of a collaborative community effort. There wa agreement in the concept and... News story 8 February 2019 The NHS in England, Scotland and Wales along with Health and Social Care Northern Ireland, NHS Digital, Genomics England, Health Data Research UK, Public Health England and Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) announced today that they will create a non-profit association to accelerate progress in medicine and health. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust Guy's and St Thomas' provides 2.6 million patient contact in acute and specialist hospital service and community service every year. As one of the biggest NHS trust in the UK, with an annual turnover of almost 1.6 billion, we employ around 17,100 staff. In 2018/19 we had over 550 study running across a range of medical conditions,. During 2018/19 over 19,500 people took part in research study at Guys and St Thomas. Guys and St Thomas is part of , a collaboration between Kings College London, and Guys and St Thomas, Kings College Hospital and South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trusts. At GSTT, we have several datasets that are available for research. These include Hospital Episode Statistics (HES), and NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative (HIC), which are detailed below. HES is a database containing detail of all admissions, A&E attendance and outpatient appointment at NHS hospital in England. Data is collected during a patient time at hospital a part of the Commissioning Data Set (CDS). This is submitted to NHS Digital for processing and is returned to healthcare provider a the Secondary Uses Service (SUS). Each HES record contains a wide range of information about an individual patient admitted to an NHS hospital, including clinical information, patient demographics, administrative information and geographical information. Benefits of HES datasets include: monitoring trend and pattern in NHS hospital activity assessing effective delivery of care supporting local service planning providing the basis for national indicator of clinical quality revealing health trend over time informing patient choice determining fair access to health care developing, monitoring and evaluating government policy supporting NHS and parliamentary accountability The HIC brings together all NHS trust with NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (BRCs) to make NHS clinical data more readily available to NHS trust and researchers. GSTT lead on the Renal Transplantation theme. This includes capturing clinical, laboratory and demographic data from all patient admitted for a kidney transplant between 1st of January 2005 and onwards, for patient who are over 16 from four BRCs. All data is routinely collected a part of clinical care. Benefits of HIC datasets are: More effective use of electronic patient record Improving the ability to draw comparison from research and analysis Making information held easier to find and use Better opportunity to link with other public organisations, charities, academic organisation and industry to improve patient outcomes. All data available for research is completely anonymised. Kate Blake, Director of Research Strategy at Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, said: We are thrilled to be joining the UK Health Data Research Alliance. Guys and St Thomas is one of the leading Trusts for research in the country, and we look forward to being able to share best practice and solution with colleague at institution across the UK. Being part of the Alliance is an important part of our ongoing work to ensure the highest possible standard are deployed when using our data. Work that GSTT ha been involved in: Project Alliance member are committed to being transparent around their governance process for accessing data and the approved us of that data. As such, publishing a register of projects, study and organisation that have used data under their custodianship is a vital demonstration of this. The work of the Alliance... Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust Based in the heart of Nottingham and providing service to over 2.5 million resident of Nottingham and it surrounding communities, this is one of the biggest and busiest acute hospital in England. The trust is at the forefront of many research programme and new surgical procedures. In partnership with The University of Nottingham they host a Biomedical Research Centre carrying out vital research into hearing, digestive diseases, respiratory, musculoskeletal disease, mental health and imaging. Datasets Hosted by Nottingham University Hospital, the is improving the health of million of people with common disease like asthma and arthritis. The centre drive innovation in experimental science and translate research into breakthrough treatments, new technology and advanced medicine which benefit patients. At the heart of the Nottingham BRC is internationally renowned expertise in. The BRC is able to offer access to a population of over 4 million with ethnic and socioeconomic diversity, including well-characterised patient cohorts. Further Information NUH Research Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre Nottingham University Hospitals: For more information, contact the Director of the NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre at or Managing Director of Research and Innovation at NUH: Follow: Twitter @nottmhospitals Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Optimum Patient Care Optimum Patient Care Global (OPCG) (Global research and quality improvement programmes) OPCG wa established in 2005 and provides a range of service to translate research into clinical practice and oversee new sustainable global data source e.g., International Severe Asthma Register (ISAR). OPCG work in collaboration with health care professional and organisation across the world. OPCG consists of a team of data scientists, medical scientists, database expert and business system expert to facilitate improvement in the diagnosis, treatment and management of chronic disease within primary care. Optimum Patient Care Research Database (OPCRD) Summary The Optimum Patient Care Research Database (OPCRD) is a United Kingdom based real-world, longitudinal research database, which is approved by the NHS HRA Research Ethics Committee (NHS HRA REC ref: 20/EM/0148) to provide anonymised data for research purposes. OPCRD ha been in operation for 13 year and currently hold de-identified data for over 19.9 million unique patients, from GP electronic health record from over 1,100 primary care practices. The current number of registered patient actively contributing data to OPCRD is 10.1 million patients, approximately 15% of the current UK population. This data is further enhanced through the collection of patient reported (questionnaire) information collected a part of the OPC quality improvement (QI) and research support service provided a a no-cost service to GP practice in the UK. OPCRD is also one of the fastest growing UK databases, growing at over 3 million patient per year, with a total of 15.6 million patient added in the past 5 years. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | UK Dementia Research Institute (UK DRI) Theis the UKs leading biomedical institute dedicated to neurodegenerative disease, and to changing the life of the million affected by dementia worldwide. Hosted across six of the UKs leading universities, our scientists, clinician and technical staff are at the forefront of effort to find new diagnostics, technologies, and treatment for dementia. Prof Caleb Webber, UK Dementia Research Institute Director of Data Science and Informatics, said:The UK Dementia Research Institute is thrilled to join the UK Health Data Research Alliance. The UK DRI is a data-driven institute, and joining the Alliance will support u in our goal to equip every researcher with the knowledge to interpret and exploit research data to it fullest potential. This collaboration will hugely help u on our quest to find new treatment and technology to tackle the challenge of dementia. For more information visit: Follow u on Twitter: Find u on LinkedIn: Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) The HFEA is the UKs independent regulator of fertility treatment and research using human embryos. Set up in 1990 by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act, the HFEA is responsible for licensing, monitoring and inspecting fertility clinic to ensure patient and everyone born through fertility treatment receives high quality care. The HFEA is an arm length body of the Department of Health, working independently from Governmentproviding free, clear andimpartial information about fertility treatment, clinicsandegg, sperm and embryo donation. The HFEA is funded by licence fees, IVF treatment fee and a grant from UK central government. About our data By law, every fertility clinic in the UK ha a duty to submit data to u about fertility treatment taking place and baby born a a result. We hold this data on a secure database known a The Register, which isthe longest running database of it kind in the world. We collect data on more than 70,000 fertility treatment each year, ranging from IVF, to donor insemination, egg freezing and more. We use this data to improve patient care and help researcher to conduct world-class research, whilst protecting the confidentiality of patients. Peter Thompson, Chief Executive of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, said: We are delighted to be joining the UK Health Data Research Alliance, and look forward to working with the other Alliance member to help improve research into fertility and ultimately improve patient care. As the UK fertility regulator we hold an unique set of data on our Register, which isthe longest running database of it kind in the world. There have been many advance in the development of fertility treatment since the birth of the first IVF baby Louise Brown over 40 year ago. Yet, the IVF sector, both in the UK and elsewhere, need more high quality, evidence-based research to improve outcome for patients. Being part of the Alliance will make our data much more accessible and allow researcher to look into much needed new development and issue to improve fertility treatment for the benefit of patients. For more information visit, or follow u on Work that the HFEA ha been involved in: Project Alliance member are committed to being transparent around their governance process for accessing data and the approved us of that data. As such, publishing a register of projects, study and organisation that have used data under their custodianship is a vital demonstration of this. The work of the Alliance... Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | British Regional Heart Study (BRHS) The British Regional Heart Study (BRHS) is a long-term cohort investigating the cause of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in men and seeking to understand the effect of co-morbidities on CVD & ageing. The BRHS provides a geographically and socially representative cohort for the prospective investigation of CVD in British men spanning over four decades. We are immensely grateful to the BRHS participants, to the BRHS general practice for their continued support, to our collaborator and to the BRHS research team member past and present. Established in 1978-80, the British Regional Heart Study (BRHS) study ha benefited from four repeated assessment of the men at age in middle (40-59 years) and later life (60-79, 72-91 and 79-98 years). Participants have been followed up for >40 year at four timepoints in middle-age through to very old age for a wide range of health outcomes, including all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity, physical disability and frailty using GP record and participant questionnaires. This unique ageing cohort with extensive phenotyping, genotyping and detailed follow-up will contribute and allow studying healthy cardiovascular ageing including prevention of CVD, heart failure, stroke, diabetes and related disability (frailty, dementia) in older age and to examine other key health outcome related to CVD and associated with healthy ageing, such a physical function, disability, frailty, dental health, malnutrition and sarcopenia. Goya Wannamethee, BRHS Director said, The BRHS is delighted to become a member of the Health Data Research Alliance. We are keen to make our research data accessible to researcher so that it can be fully utilized for the study of cardiovascular disease prevention and healthy cardiovascular ageing. Website: Follow u on X (formerly Twitter): Page University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation Trust wa formed on 1 April 2020 following the merger of University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust and Weston Area Health NHS Trust. News announcement 24 April 2024 Today, we are delighted to announce that three more organisation have signed up to join the Alliance. News announcement 24 April 2024 Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) is launching a funding call to establish a co-ordination centre for a pilot real-world evidence network that will utilise data gathered from multiple UK sources. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search | Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust provides integrated healthcare services, including mental health, intellectualdisability and physical health services. Over 9000 dedicated staff provide these service in a variety of settings, ranging from the community through to acute wards, a well a secure settings. The Trust manages two medium secure units, Arnold Lodge in Leicester and Wathwood Hospital in Rotherham, and the high secure Rampton Hospital near Retford. It also provides healthcare in prison across the East Midlands. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Get in touch The UK Health Data Research Alliance is an open and inclusive association with an overarching goal to accelerate progress in in biomedicine, health and care by encouraging widespread access to structured and unstructured clinical, administrative, imaging, genomic and other molecular data. If you would like to contact u or find out how to get involved in our projects, please get in touch below: UK Health Data Research Alliance Secretariat Health Data Research UK (Central Office) Gibbs Building 215 Euston Road London NW1 2BE Email: Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search UK Health Data Research Alliance Brand Identity Our brand guideline detail our identity at UK Health Data Research Alliance and how this should be applied across all our communications, both internal and external. They are in place to help colleague understand how we want to communicate our brand and how to maintain a consistent and professional brand identity. Our logo can be downloaded and our brand guideline . For further details, guidance and artwork please contact our Comms Team by email: Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Terms and Conditions Who we are and how to contact u This site is operated by Health Data Research UK (HDR UK). HDR UK (the convenor of UK Health Data Research Alliance) is a limited company registered in England and Wales under company number 10887014 and it registered office is at 215 Euston Road, London, England, NW1 2BE. Acceptance of Terms and Conditions Access to and use of this site is provided by HDR UK subject to the following: By using this site you confirm that you accept the following Terms and Conditions and that you agree to comply with them. The Terms and Conditions take effect on the date of your first use of the site. If you do not agree to these Terms and Conditions, you must not use our site. Other Terms and Conditions that apply to you The following additional term also apply to your use of our site: , which set out how we will use your personal data. , which set out information about the cooky on our site. Changes to Terms and Conditions HDR UK reserve the right to amend these Terms and Conditions from time to time. When you use this site, please check the Terms and Conditions. By continuing to use the site after amendment are made you confirm that you accept the amendment and that you agree to comply with them. Disclaimer Views and opinion of non-HDR UK group or individual that appear on this site do not necessarily reflect the view of HDR UK. HDR UK doe not endorse or recommend any commercial products, process or service linked from or provided on this site. This site and the information, names, images, pictures, logo and icon contained therein are provided AS IS and on an AS AVAILABLE basis without any representation or endorsement made and without warranty of any kind. In no event will HDR UK or any of it member/partner organisation be liable to you for any loss or damage, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty, or otherwise, even if foreseeable, arising under or in connection with use of, or inability to use our site or use of or reliance on any content displayed on our site, including, without limitation, any indirect or consequential loss or damage, loss of profits, sales, business or revenue, loss of anticipated savings, loss or business opportunity, goodwill or reputation or business interruption. HDR UK doe not warrant that the service continuity of this site will be uninterrupted or error-free, nor that this site or the server that make it available are free of viruses, bug or defects. External link Links from this site to other external site are provided for convenience and information only. HDR UK and it members/partners do not endorse the content or service delivered through these external site and are not responsible for their availability, reliability or accuracy. HDR UK have no control over the content of these external sites. Permission to reproduce information from these external site may be required from the external site provider. The existence of a link from any organisation site to HDR UKs site doe not imply that HDR UK endorses the activity or view of that organisation. We only link to site (charity, business or otherwise) if they fulfil the following two conditions: HDR UK ha an existing partnership with the organisation and/or the link is relevant to the work of HDR UK. Copyright restriction HDRUK is the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property right in this site, and in the material published on it. You may print off one copy, and may download extracts, of any page(s) from our site for your personal use and you may draw the attention of others within your organisation to content posted on our site. You must not modify the paper or digital copy of any material you have printed off or downloaded in any way, and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequence or any graphic separately from any accompanying text. Our status (and that of any identified contributors) a the author of content on our site must always be acknowledged. You must not use any part of the content on our site for commercial purpose without obtaining a licence to do so from u or our licensors. If you print off, copy or download any part of our site in breach of these Terms and Conditions, your right to use our site will cease immediately and you must, at our option, return or destroy any copy of the material you have made. Restrictions on your use of the site You agree to use this site only for lawful purposes, and in a manner which doe not infringe the right of, or restrict, or inhibit the use and enjoyment of this site by any third party. Such restriction includes, without limitation, conduct which is unlawful or which may harass or cause distress or inconvenience to any person and the transmission of offensive material or disruption of normal flow of dialogue within this site. You must not misuse our site by knowingly introducing any material that contains viruses, Trojan horses, worms, logic bombs, time-bombs, keystroke loggers, spyware, adware or other harmful program or material that is malicious or technologically harmful. You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to our site, the server on which our site is stored or any server, computer or database connected to our site. You must not attack our site via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of-service attached. By breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990. We will report any breach to the relevant law enforcement authority and we will co-operate with those authority by disclosing your identity to them. In the event of such a breach, your right to use our site will cease immediately. Accuracy of information Neither HDR UK nor it member will be liable for any loss or damage that may result from use of the site a a consequence of any inaccuracy in, or any omission from, the information, which it may contain. We have made reasonable effort to ensure that the information is accurate at the time of inclusion. However, we make no representations, warranty or guarantees, whether express or implied, that the information on this site is free from technical inaccuracy or typographical error or that the content is accurate, complete or up to date. We are not liable for any error or omission in, or any failure to update, the information on this site and any decision based on the information are your sole responsibility. Other important term If any of these Terms and Conditions should be determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by reason of the law of any state or country in which these Terms and Conditions are intended to be effective, then to the extent to and within the jurisdiction in which that Term and Condition is illegal, invalid and unenforceable, it shall be severed and deleted from these Terms and Conditions and the remaining Terms and Conditions shall survive, remain in full force and continue to be binding and enforceable. If you are a consumer, please note that these Terms and Conditions, their subject matter and their formation, are governed by English law. We both agree that the court of England and Wales will have exclusive jurisdiction except that if you are a resident of Northern Ireland you may also bring proceeding in Northern Ireland, and if you are a resident of Scotland, you may also bring proceeding in Scotland. If you are a business, these Terms and Conditions, their subject matter and their formation (and any non-contractual dispute or claims) are governed by English law. We both agree to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court of England and Wales. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by Search Privacy policy PURPOSE OF THIS PRIVACY POLICY This privacy policy provides information on how Health Data Research UK (HDR UK we, u or our) collect and process your personal data. It also describes your data protection rights, including a right to object to some of the processing which HDR UK carry out. More information about your rights, and how to exercise them, is set out in the What right do I have? section. DATA CONTROLLER HDR UK is a limited company registered in England and Wales under company number 10887014. Its registered office is at 215 Euston Road, London, England, NW1 2BE. HDR UK, a the convenor of the UK Health Data Research Alliance, is the controller and responsible for your personal data. We have a data protection manager who is responsible for overseeing question in relation to this privacy policy. If you have any question about this privacy policy, including any request to exercise your legal right a set out in this privacy policy, please contact: DATA WE COLLECT ABOUT YOU Personal data mean any information about an individual from which that person can be identified. We may collect, use, store and transfer different kind of personal data: Identity data including first name, last name, job title and similar identifier, sector and ethnicity information where you chose to provide it to u a part of our equal opportunity monitoring Contact data such a your email address, address, telephone number and social medium address. Communications Data including your communication preferences. Technical datasuch a internet protocol (IP) address, browser type and version and operating system and platform. Please see ourfor further details. HOW IS YOUR PERSONAL DATA COLLECTED? We use different method to collect data from you including through: Direct interactions. You may give u your personal data by filling in the enquiry form on our website, corresponding with u by phone, email, social medium or otherwise, when you sign up to our newsletter or register for an event, training session or meeting. Automated interactions. As you interact with our website we may collect technical data by using cooky or similar technologies. Please see ourfor further details. Third parties. When you register for our event or complete a survey via a third-party platform such a Eventbrite or SurveyMonkey, we will obtain your registration detail from the platform operator. HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL DATA AND THE PURPOSE FOR WHICH WE WILL USE IT We will use your personal data for the following purposes: To conduct our business and pursue our legitimate interests, in particular: To respond to any enquiry you make, we will use your identity data and contact data. We monitor use of our websites, and use your information to help u monitor, improve, and protect our products, content, service and websites, both online and offline. In connection with legal claims, compliance, regulatory and investigative purpose a necessary (including disclosure of such information in connection with legal process or litigation). To monitor the representation of HDR UK Voices network, where you chose to provide information relating to ethnicity and gender. Where you give u your consent: To provide you with our information and update about our work, new services, and development that you may be interested in via our newsletter and other communication such a letter and event invitations, we will use your identity data and contact data. To improve our website, we will use your technical data. For purpose which are required by law, in response to request by government or law enforcement authority conducting an investigation. Withdrawing consent or otherwise objecting to direct marketing Wherever we rely on your consent, you will always be able to withdraw that consent, although we may have other legal ground for processing your data for other purposes, such a those set out above. In some cases, we are able to send you direct marketing without your consent, where we rely on our legitimate interests. You have an absolute right to opt-out of direct marketing, or profiling we carry out for direct marketing, at any time. You can do this by following the instruction in the communication where this is an electronic message, or by contacting u using the detail set out above. DISCLOSURE OF PERSONAL DATA We may share your personal data with external third-party system provider who provide service including IT, online training, system administration and cloud-based software services. We may also share your contact information with external third-party organisation which we co-run patient and public involvement activity with or arrange event or training on behalf of HDR UK. We will not share your personal data with other third parties, unless you give your consent for u to do so, and we will not share your information with any other organisation for their own marketing, market research or commercial purposes. We require all third party to respect the security of your personal data and to treat it in accordance with the law. We do not allow our third-party service provider to use your personal data for their own purpose and only permit them to process your personal data for specified purpose and in accordance with our instructions. We may share your personal information with regulator or other authority if we have a legal obligation to do so. If HDR UK is transferred or integrated with another business, your detail will be disclosed to our adviser and the other party advisors. INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS Some of our external third-party system provider are based in the United States or other country outside the UK and EEA so their processing of your personal data will involve a transfer of data. Whenever we transfer your personal data out of the UK and EEA, we ensure a similar degree of protection is afforded to that personal data by ensuring at least one of the following safeguard is implemented: We will only transfer your personal data to country that have been deemed to provide an adequate level of protection for personal data by the European Commission. Where we use certain service provider in country which have not been deemed to provide an adequate level of protection, we will use specific contract approved by the European Commission which give personal data the same protection it ha in the UK and Europe. A copy of this can be provided for your review on request to the contact detail below. DATA RETENTION We will only retain your personal data for a long a reasonably necessary to fulfil the purpose we collected it for. Where we process personal data for marketing purpose or with your consent, we process the data until you ask u to stop and for a short period after this (to allow u to implement your requests). We also keep a record of the fact that you have asked u not to send you direct marketing or to process your data so that we can respect your request in future. The lifespan of the cooky we use is explained in our . YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS Under certain circumstances, you have right under data protection law in relation to your personal data, including: Request access to your personal data(commonly known a a data subject access request). This enables you to receive a copy of the personal data we hold about you and to check that we are lawfully processing it. Request correction of your personal data. This enables you to have any incomplete or inaccurate data we hold about you corrected, though we may need to verify the accuracy of the new data you provide to us. Request erasure of your personal data. This enables you to ask u to delete or remove personal data where there is no good reason for u continuing to process it. Note, however, that we may not always be able to comply with your request of erasure for specific legal reason which will be notified to you, if applicable, at the time of your request. Object to processing of your personal data. This enables you to object to processing of your personal data if you feel it impact on your fundamental right and freedom or if we are using it for direct marketing purposes. Request restriction of processing your personal data. This enables you to ask u to suspend the processing of your personal data in a number of different scenarios, such a where you want u establish the accuracy of the data. . Request transfer of your personal data. This enables you to request the transfer of your personal data to a third party. Note that this right only applies to automated information which you initially provided consent for u to use or where we used the information to perform a contract with you. Right to withdraw consent. This enables you to withdraw your consent that we are relying on to process your personal data. If you withdraw your consent, we may not be able to provide certain service to you. We will advise you if this is the case at the time you withdraw your consent. If you wish to exercise any of these rights, pleasecontact DataProtection@hdruk.ac.uk. You will not have to pay a fee to access your personal data (or to exercise any of the other rights). We may need to request specific information from you to help u confirm your identity and ensure your right to access your personal data (or to exercise any of your other rights). This is a security measure to ensure that personal data is not disclosed to any person who ha no right to receive it. We may also contact you to ask you for further information in relation to your request to speed up our response. We try to respond to all legitimate request within one month. Occasionally it may take u longer than a month if your request is particularly complex or you have made a number of requests. In this case, we will notify you and keep you updated. These right may be limited, for example if fulfilling your request would reveal personal data about another person, or if you ask u to delete information which we are required by law or have compelling legitimate interest to keep. If you have unresolved concerns, you have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner, the UKs data protection authority. Follow u on social medium UKHDRA 2024. All right reserved.| Design and development by