Health-RI is the Dutch national initiative to facilitate and stimulate an integrated health data infrastructure accessible for researchers, citizens, care provider and industry. It will enable optimal use of health data, sample and images, a learning healthcare system and accelerate personalized health. Main navigation (mobile) Secondary navigation (mobile) Chevron Down Secondary menu Health-RI team Sluiten Deel deze pagina E-mailadres Health-RI is een Nederlands initiatief gericht op het faciliteren en stimuleren van een gentegreerde (data)infrastructuur voor gezondheidsdata, toegankelijk voor onderzoekers, burgers, zorgverleners en het bedrijfsleven. Deze infrastructuur maakt het optimaal gebruiken van gezondheidsdata, lichaamsmateriaal- en monster en medische beelden mogelijk. Het draagt daarnaast bij aan een lerend zorgsysteem en het sneller mogelijk maken van gepersonaliseerde gezondheid. Main navigation (footer) Secondary menu (footer) Volg ons op 2024 Health-RI Secondary footer menu | | | Main navigation (mobile) Secondary navigation (mobile) Chevron Down Secondary menu Data Driven Health & Life Sciences: Connect, Share and Reuse Better health for citizen and patient by reusing health data with an integrated health data infrastructure for research, policy and innovation. About Health-RIHealth-RI mission is better health(care) for citizen and patient by reusing health data with an integrated health data infrastructure for research, policyand innovation.If we can predict disease progression and treatment response based on biological factors, we can offer each of u a tailored treatment. We call this personalized medicine. In the same way, we can promote health and prevent disease: personalized health. Aftermovie Health-RI Conference 2023: Connecting the Dots Our vision is based on the potential of improved data reuse. By combining data from various source - such a clinical data and lifestyle data - a deeper understanding of the complexity of disease and health can be achieved. This, in turn, lead to the development of better treatment and products, ultimately improving the health of citizen and patients. Recent news Pagination Working at Health-RIProjectleaders and data manager are continuously working on new way to improve collaboration in health research, to share and reusedata. Technical tool andservices but also solution for ethical, legal and societal issues.Connecting and integrating thesewill speed up the development of the Health Data Infrastructure and make for more sustainable open science.Also check out our . Close Share this page Email Address Health-RIisthe Dutch national initiative to facilitate and stimulate an integrated health data infrastructure accessible for researchers, citizens, care provider and industry.Itwill enable optimal use of health data, sample and images, a learning healthcare system and accelerate personalized health. Main navigation (footer) Secondary menu (footer) Follow u on 2024 Health-RI Secondary footer menu | | | Main navigation (mobile) Secondary navigation (mobile) Chevron Down Secondary menu The European Health Data Space The European Health Data Space (EHDS) is a proposal for a regulation from the European Commission. This regulation complement the GDPR and make it possible to share health data on a national and European level for primary and secondary use. In addition, the EHDS give citizen more control over their health data, the European market for EHRs and wellness application is regulated by mean of certification and the EHDS prescribes how the governance of primary and secondary use must be organized in each Member State.As Health-RI, we are closely involved in the development of the EHDS, particularly in the field of secondary use of health data. Health-RI actively collaborates with the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport and many stakeholder in the Netherlands and Europe to gain a clear picture of interest and shape the implementation of the regulation in the Netherlands.This website contains noteworthy news about the EHDS, Health-RI statement and activity regarding the EHDS and Frequently Asked Questions.Feel free to share your question with Health-RI here:VideoBelow, Hugo van Haastert, former VWS attach to the European Commission, briefly explains what the EHDS entail (video in Dutch). Sluiten Deel deze pagina E-mailadres Health-RI is een Nederlands initiatief gericht op het faciliteren en stimuleren van een gentegreerde (data)infrastructuur voor gezondheidsdata, toegankelijk voor onderzoekers, burgers, zorgverleners en het bedrijfsleven. Deze infrastructuur maakt het optimaal gebruiken van gezondheidsdata, lichaamsmateriaal- en monster en medische beelden mogelijk. Het draagt daarnaast bij aan een lerend zorgsysteem en het sneller mogelijk maken van gepersonaliseerde gezondheid. Main navigation (footer) Secondary menu (footer) Volg ons op 2024 Health-RI Secondary footer menu | | |