HL7 is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. HL7 is supported by more than 1,600 member from over 50 countries, including 500+ corporate member representing healthcare providers, government stakeholders, payers, pharmaceutical companies, vendors/suppliers, and consulting firms. Dallas, Texas | May 18 - 24, 2024 HL7 FHIR Connectathon &Working Group Meeting Network, learn and influence interoperability! Minneapolis, Minnesota | June 10 - 13, 2024 HL7 FHIR DevDays The largest FHIR-only event in the world Health IT Membership Resources HL7 Virtual Student Academy Free student resource on demand! Become a member today Join HL7! Demonstrate your industry leadership and commitment to making interoperability a reality What's now and next for interoperability New to HL7? Find resource for individual looking to get involved or just starting out and needing an orientation to HL7. Upcoming Events May 18, 2024 - May 24, 2024 June 10, 2024 - June 13, 2024 July 16, 2024 - July 18, 2024 August 7, 2024 - August 8, 2024 September 4, 2024 - September 5, 2024 Upcoming Training May 7, 2024 - May 8, 2024 May 15, 2024 - May 15, 2024 May 23, 2024 - August 15, 2024 May 30, 2024 - July 11, 2024 June 13, 2024 - July 11, 2024 OID Registry Obtain or register an OID and find OID resources. About HL7 International Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. News & Announcements Benefactors Thank you HL7 Benefactors, for demonstrating leadership and aligning with our mission to empower global health data interoperability. HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program The HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program assist implementers in the creation of FHIR implementation and adoption activities. Sign up for our Mailing List Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Dallas, Texas | May 18 - 24, 2024 HL7 FHIR Connectathon &Working Group Meeting Network, learn and influence interoperability! Minneapolis, Minnesota | June 10 - 13, 2024 HL7 FHIR DevDays The largest FHIR-only event in the world Health IT Membership Resources HL7 Virtual Student Academy Free student resource on demand! Become a member today Join HL7! Demonstrate your industry leadership and commitment to making interoperability a reality What's now and next for interoperability New to HL7? Find resource for individual looking to get involved or just starting out and needing an orientation to HL7. Upcoming Events May 18, 2024 - May 24, 2024 June 10, 2024 - June 13, 2024 July 16, 2024 - July 18, 2024 August 7, 2024 - August 8, 2024 September 4, 2024 - September 5, 2024 Upcoming Training May 7, 2024 - May 8, 2024 May 15, 2024 - May 15, 2024 May 23, 2024 - August 15, 2024 May 30, 2024 - July 11, 2024 June 13, 2024 - July 11, 2024 OID Registry Obtain or register an OID and find OID resources. About HL7 International Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. News & Announcements Benefactors Thank you HL7 Benefactors, for demonstrating leadership and aligning with our mission to empower global health data interoperability. HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program The HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program assist implementers in the creation of FHIR implementation and adoption activities. Sign up for our Mailing List Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Dallas, Texas | May 18 - 24, 2024 HL7 FHIR Connectathon &Working Group Meeting Network, learn and influence interoperability! Minneapolis, Minnesota | June 10 - 13, 2024 HL7 FHIR DevDays The largest FHIR-only event in the world Health IT Membership Resources HL7 Virtual Student Academy Free student resource on demand! Become a member today Join HL7! Demonstrate your industry leadership and commitment to making interoperability a reality What's now and next for interoperability New to HL7? Find resource for individual looking to get involved or just starting out and needing an orientation to HL7. Upcoming Events May 18, 2024 - May 24, 2024 June 10, 2024 - June 13, 2024 July 16, 2024 - July 18, 2024 August 7, 2024 - August 8, 2024 September 4, 2024 - September 5, 2024 Upcoming Training May 7, 2024 - May 8, 2024 May 15, 2024 - May 15, 2024 May 23, 2024 - August 15, 2024 May 30, 2024 - July 11, 2024 June 13, 2024 - July 11, 2024 OID Registry Obtain or register an OID and find OID resources. About HL7 International Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. News & Announcements Benefactors Thank you HL7 Benefactors, for demonstrating leadership and aligning with our mission to empower global health data interoperability. HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program The HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program assist implementers in the creation of FHIR implementation and adoption activities. Sign up for our Mailing List Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Dallas, Texas | May 18 - 24, 2024 HL7 FHIR Connectathon &Working Group Meeting Network, learn and influence interoperability! Minneapolis, Minnesota | June 10 - 13, 2024 HL7 FHIR DevDays The largest FHIR-only event in the world Health IT Membership Resources HL7 Virtual Student Academy Free student resource on demand! Become a member today Join HL7! Demonstrate your industry leadership and commitment to making interoperability a reality What's now and next for interoperability New to HL7? Find resource for individual looking to get involved or just starting out and needing an orientation to HL7. Upcoming Events May 18, 2024 - May 24, 2024 June 10, 2024 - June 13, 2024 July 16, 2024 - July 18, 2024 August 7, 2024 - August 8, 2024 September 4, 2024 - September 5, 2024 Upcoming Training May 7, 2024 - May 8, 2024 May 15, 2024 - May 15, 2024 May 23, 2024 - August 15, 2024 May 30, 2024 - July 11, 2024 June 13, 2024 - July 11, 2024 OID Registry Obtain or register an OID and find OID resources. About HL7 International Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. News & Announcements Benefactors Thank you HL7 Benefactors, for demonstrating leadership and aligning with our mission to empower global health data interoperability. HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program The HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program assist implementers in the creation of FHIR implementation and adoption activities. Sign up for our Mailing List Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > About HL7 About HL7 Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. HL7 is supported by more than 1,600 member from over 50 countries, including 500+ corporate member representing healthcare providers, government stakeholders, payers, pharmaceutical companies, vendors/suppliers, and consulting firms. Watch a quick overview of New to HL7? Learn the rope at the . HL7 Vision A world in which everyone can securely access and use the right health data when and where they need it. HL7 Mission To provide standard that empower global health data interoperability. HL7 - What Does it Mean? "Level Seven" refers to the seventh level of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) seven-layer communication model for Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) - the application level. The application level interface directly to and performs common application service for the application processes. Although other protocol have largely superseded it, the OSI model remains valuable a a place to begin the study of network architecture. HL7's People and Organizations See a list of or download the . Join Us! Become a member or share your talent a a volunteer. | Reports, Guidelines and Procedures (pdf) Need Help? If you see a HL7 FHIR mark being used in any way that could be infringing or is contrary to HL7 Trademark Policy please . We really appreciate your help! Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > People and Organizations Health Level Seven - The People and Organizations People at HL7 Awards and Scholarships Certified Members and Participating Organizations Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Annual Report HL7's Annual Report HL7's Annual Report RSS (13.57 MB) (9.68 MB) (11.75 MB) (3.47 MB) (3.92 MB) (16.00 MB) (10.39 MB) (5.86 MB) (4.27 MB) (942 KB) (1.09 MB) (4.46 MB) (1.83 MB) (6.81 MB) Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > FAQs Frequently Asked Questions General Information About HL7 Account Information Membership Information Training: HL7 Fundamentals and HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Certification Meetings and Events Work Groups Licensing of SNOMED CT in HL7 Products Balloting Standards Trademarks and Intellectual Property OIDs Search the FAQ To quickly search this page, press Ctrl+F on your keyboard and type in the term. Press "Enter" to cycle through the match on the page. Links to other FAQs Can't find the answer? Log on to Zulip and ask your peers! General Information About HL7 What is Health Level Seven International (HL7)? Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International is a non-for-profit, American National Standards Institute (ANSI) -accredited Standards Developing Organizations (SDOs) serving the healthcare industry with a focus on clinical and administrative data. HL7 is supported by member from over 50 countries, including over 500 corporate member representing healthcare providers, government stakeholders, payers, pharmaceutical companies, vendors/suppliers and consulting firms. What doe the name HL7 mean? The name HL7 come from the seven level of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model. Level Seven is the Application Level. What doe HL7 do? HL7 provides standard and solution for the healthcare industry's interoperability challenges. HL7 is dedicated to producing comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. What is HL7's vision and mission? HL7 Vision: A world in which everyone can securely access and use the right health data when and where they need it. HL7 Mission: To provide standard that empower global health data interoperability. What is interoperability? Interoperability refers to the ability of application to exchange and make use of information. For further information, please visit the interoperability page on the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT at: . What is a standard? A standard is a document, established by consensus that provides rules, guideline or characteristic for activity or their results. (As defined in ISO/IEC Guide 2:1996). HL7 and it member provide a framework (and related standards) for the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information. These standard define how information is packaged and communicated from one party to another, setting the language, structure and data type required for seamless integration between systems. HL7 standard support clinical practice and the management, delivery, and evaluation of health services, and are recognized a the most commonly used in the world. For example, HL7's Version 2 (V2) is a widely adopted "messaging standard" around the globe that will continue to be in place for a very long time. HL7's newest standard, the HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resource (FHIR) standard is described a a next generation "API standard" framework combining the best feature of HL7's Version 2, Version 3 and CDA product line while leveraging the latest web standard and applying a tight focus on implementability. FHIR is an interoperability standard intended to facilitate the exchange of healthcare information between organizations. It consists of 2 main parts: a content model in the form of 'resources', and a specification for the exchange of these resource in the form of real-time RESTful interface a well a messaging and Documents. These feature of FHIR promote compatibility with electronic health record and make it particularly useful for creating mobile phone apps, cloud communication and EHR-based data sharing. Who can I contact if I have questions? You can contact the . How is HL7 organized? Health Level Seven member are organized into and work group are organized into steering divisions. HL7 member are encouraged to participate in all work group in which they have an interest. Work group are responsible for defining and developing the HL7 standard applicable to their domain. Each work group is chaired by two or more co-chairs. Please see the (pdf) for more information. How do I subscribe to the HL7 news and receive other event notifications? You can do both by filling out the form available at the . Account Information How do I log in to the website? There is a log in link available in the upper right hand corner on the HL7 website. Enter your email and password. If you've forgotten your password, you can use the "forgot your password?" link available on the Log In screen to have them sent to the email account you used to sign up. I forgot my password, how can I retrieve it? In the upper right hand corner, click the Log In link. On the resulting page, click the link labeled "Forgot your password?" You will be emailed instruction on how to change your password. Why can't I get into my account? The system may not recognize you a logged in, or your membership may have expired. To confirm that you are logged in, look in the upper right hand corner of your browser and make sure that your name is listed next to the Log Out link. If your name is not listed you will need to log in. It is also possible that your cooky have become corrupt, to correct this log out of the website and log back in again. If you are unable to log out, you will want to delete your cooky and close your browsers. If you're sure that you are logged in properly, click Membership then My Membership to confirm that your membership is active. If you are still unable to access your account, please contact . How do I change my password? Log into HL7.org, click Membership, click My Account, from the top right corner person icon, hover over and select "change password". On the following page, enter in your email address to have a password reset email sent.. How do I update my email address? Log into your account on the HL7 website. Click on My Account. Under Communication Information, click the word "change". Update your email address and select your preferred email type (if applicable). At the bottom of the section, click the "save" button. How do I update my mailing address? Log into your account on the HL7 website. Click on My Account. Under Address Information, click the word "change". Update your address and click the "save" button. Membership Information Why should I become a member? Membership in HL7 is available to everyone interested in the development of a cost-effective approach to system connectivity. Involvement and support from HL7's member is crucial to the ongoing expansion and enhancement of the HL7 standard and the overall success of the organization. More information on membership can be found online at . What are the different kind of membership? Which is right for me? Information on membership, including membership levels, benefits, and pricing, is available by clicking on the appropriate Membership Level at . How do I check my membership renewal date and rate? Log into your account on the HL7 website. From the HL7 home page, click on My Account. On the left side, select "Memberships" or "Company Memberships". How do I update my organization's account profile? NOTE: Changes to the organization's information, including it organizational profile can only be made by the Key Member for the organization. Log into your account on the HL7 website. Click on My Account. On the left, select "Company Information". Be sure to hit submit once your change have been made. How do I change my membership information? Most change (other than name changes) can be made by logging into your account on the HL7 website and clicking on My Account. Please send request for name changes/corrections to . How do I change my organization's voting members? To make change to the roster of organizational voting member, the Key Member for the organization can submit change (names of individual being removed and/or added) via email to . When adding new voting members, please ensure that the individual ha an account already created (username/password) on the HL7 website. For memberships, when doe the year start? The membership year is annual, beginning with the date the initial payment is received, i.e., March 12, 2019 - March 11, 2020. When I try to (vote, register, etc.) it say I don't have access or that I'm not a member in good standing. What do I need to do? If you have difficulty accessing your account or have question regarding your membership status, please contact HL7 headquarters at 734-677-7777 or . How do I download HL7's organizational membership logo? The membership logo can only be downloaded by the Key Member for the organization. Log into your account on the HL7 website. Click on My HL7 Dashboard under My HL7 Account. Under Member Tools, click on HL7 membership logo and you will see the link(s) to download the logos. What are the difference between organizational and individual memberships? HL7 offer a variety of Membership Levels to fit everyone's needs. To learn more about the benefit of HL7 membership, view the . Can I get a refund of membership due recently paid? Refunds are not available. Does HL7 use any of it membership revenue for lobbying? No What are the advantage of being an HL7 member? There are many advantage of being an HL7 member, including the following: The most important advantage is the engagement in the development of standard Those who actively participate in the development and balloting of standard should have a competitive advantage over passive user Organizational member have always enjoyed the advantage of being able to develop product-specific implementation guide for their client under our normal licensing term Non-members wishing to distribute derivative work outside their organization must be member Your financial contribution a a member help ensure that there is sufficient support for HL7 to continue it mission and vision Training: HL7 Fundamentals and HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Do I have to attend lecture in real time? This is an online, asynchronous instructor-led, tutor-assisted course that doe not require you to attend lecture at any given time. Learning take place through forum discussion with instructor, peer and tutors. Assessments are in the form of quizzes, exam and projects. Moodle is the Learning Management System used to deliver the course. How do I register for the course? You have to first open an HL7 account. You then register online on the HL7 website. During checkout you can choose to either pay with a credit card or select the "pay by check" option. The pay by check option is especially useful for organizational reimbursement. When doe registration end? When is payment due? Registration end by end of business on Friday of the week before start of class. Payment is due before start of class. Even if you are unsure if your company is going to pay your invoice, it is strongly recommended that you register, choose the pay by check option and hold your seat. If you are not able to meet the payment deadline, your registration will automatically be cancelled. For more information, please visit page. How long do student have to complete the course? Once the course ends, student will have two week to complete and turn in any outstanding assignments. How much time should be set aside to keep up with the course work? Approximately five to seven hour per week. The amount of time you will spend is dependent on your previous technical knowledge or background. Is the course refundable? If you cancel before the registration closes, you will receive a full refund minus a $50 processing. If you cancel after that date, no refund will be made.For more information, please visitpage. The prerequisite seem minimal; would someone who is not a software developer be able to master the material? If you are not a developer or do not have some technical savvy or interest in informatics, the material may be difficult to master. What happens after registration? The day before the course begin you will receive your username, password and instruction on how to access the course. You will then start your coursework. What technical requirement are needed for the course? A computer with internet browsing and PDF viewing capability are the only requirements. Will any type of certificate be given at the end of the course? Yes, you will receive a certificate at the end of the course if you have completed all the given assignment in the allotted time (before the answer are posted). This certificate doe not mean you are certified in any HL7 standards, but that you have completed the fundamental course. Certification How do I register for an HL7 certification exam? Information on how to register for a certification exam can be found on our website under . Links to study guide and sample test can also be found there. The knowledge required to pas the test can be obtained by attending HL7 educational session and webinars, participation in the HL7 working group meetings, fieldwork involving HL7 interface or simple self-study of the HL7 specification. What are the option for taking an HL7 certification exam? Currently, certificate exam are offered in V2, V3, CDA and FHIR. Registrants can take it either at one of our HOST testing center or online. More information can be found on our website under . If I don't pas on the first try, do I have to pay to take it the next time? Yes, the exam fee is charged each time the test is taken. Meetings and Events When will registration open? Event registration open no later than 30 day prior to the event. How do I view my upcoming meeting registrations? Log into HL7.org. Follow the My Account link that is located to the right of the home page; From the My Account page, please scroll to the bottom and you will find a listing of all meeting you have registered for, and can print past invoice from here a well. If you encounter a black bar across the My Account page, please just give the page time to load, and you will be able to view all of your meetings. How do I register another person for an event? You will need to log out and then log in a that person to register them for an event. If that person doe not have a login, you will need to create one for them. When I go to register for the event, it say I'm not a member, but my organization is a member. How do I get the member price? There are several reason this may occur; one may be that your membership ha lapsed or that the payment is currently being processed. Another reason could be that your user email doe not match that of the organization's email domain. They must match in order for you to receive the member benefit of your organization. Lastly, you may have to verify your email address. You will be emailed a link to verify your email match that of an organization email domain. Once you verify, you will automatically receive member rates. How can I print another copy of my registration invoice/receipt (or didn't receive one)? You can print your receipt/ invoice for any meeting by: Logging into www.HL7.org, once on the home page, select the My Account link that is located to the right of the home page. Once on the My Account page, please scroll to the bottom where you will see a section titled "My Invoices". From there you should follow the "select invoice to Pay Now/Print duplicate Receipts". If a black bar appears on your screen once you selected the My Account link, please just wait for the page to load. It may take a full minute. How do I add a tutorial, cancel a tutorial, change a date, etc.? To update any portion of your meeting registration, simply follow the Meetings link that is located to the right of the home page under "Quick Links". Once on that page, please select the meeting you wish to update. You will see a link titled, "You may update your registration here". The link will take you to a page where you can adjust the item you wish to update. If you are adding a day, please select the "Update Tickets" link located next to your daily choices. Likewise, if you wish to add or remove a tutorial, please select the "Update Tickts" link the section next to the tutorials. You can also find the option to cancel your entire registration by scrolling down to the bottom of the page. For more information, please visitpage. A black bar containing link to other page on HL7.org appears in the middle of the page and won't go away. What should I do? If you encounter a black bar that stretch across the middle of a page, please allow approximately 30-60 second for the page to finish loading. The black bar is the footer and will eventually drop into it correct location. Work Groups What is a working group meeting? When are they? HL7 working group meeting (WGMs) are held three time per year at varying locations. These working group meeting serve two important purposes: They give the HL7 work group a chance to meet face-to-face to work on the standard a well a the opportunity to network with industry leader from around the world. They provide an invaluable educational resource for the healthcare IT community. For more information, please refer to 'First-Time Attendee Resources' located at . For date and locations, go to the . How do I become involved in HL7 work groups? The best way to become involved in an HL7 work group is by simply attending the group's regularly scheduled call a well a joining it listserv. You may search for a work group's call coordinate in the . Once you've logged in with a free HL7 account, you can also subscribe to a work group's listserv. I requested to be subscribed to a listserv, why doe it say I'm already subscribed? Or I subscribed to a listserv, why can't I send or receive email? The listserv ha likely already received your request to join the list. If you are unable to send or receive email from the list, your subscription may not have been activated. The listserv sign-up process generates a confirmation email which is sent to the requesting email address. Until you click the link within this confirmation email, your subscription will not be activated. Be sure to check your junk mail folder for the confirmation email. If you are still unable to locate the confirmation email or have any other question regarding the listserv, please send an email to for assistance. How do I delete or edit a conference call? Only current co-chairs have access to these features. If you are a co-chair, please visit the following link: . Once there, click on the call you wish to remove or edit. This prompt the call information to display on the screen; the editing option are located at the bottom of the page. Please note that editing option are limited and the original call may need to be deleted in order to make your desired changes. I am interested in becoming a co-chair; where can I locate information on elections, etc.? Information on becoming a co-chair is available in the Governance and Operations Manual (section 09.02.06) . Information on current co-chair election is available on the HL7 website under Resources > Elections: . Where can I find information about an archived work group or a work group that is no longer in existence or one that ha merged with another? View the list of archived work group and project on the ; the list is in the lower right portion of the page. Licensing of SNOMED CT in HL7 Products What is licensing of SNOMED CT in HL7 products? The following key point are provided by the SNOMED to confirm the SNOMED CT licensing arrangement that have been agreed between SNOMED and HL7 International. These are in line with the condition set out in the SNOMED CT Affiliate license agreement and do not replace them. For further information, first review SNOMED CT licensing information and then contact to discus your specific requirement for a license. Can HL7 access the full scope of SNOMED CT when developing HL7 documents, irrespective of their status in term of being in an IHTSDO member country? HL7 International working group member can access SNOMED CT if they are participating in the development of HL7 International products. A development license ha been provided by SNOMED to HL7 International, and HL7 International ha set up a mechanism to access SNOMED CT (International version). Please contact Karen Van Hentenryck, Associate Executive Director, HL7 International, for further information on accessing SNOMED CT for this work. An individual SNOMED CT affiliate license is not required for this purpose. Is it true that any user of HL7 specification who have agreed to the HL7 development license of SNOMED CT can receive, store, display and communicate SNOMED CT concept identifier and term within the scope of the agreement? No. HL7 International work group member can access SNOMED CT for development of international product under the HL7/SNOMED agreement, using the agreed mechanism. If an HL7 member is accessing an HL7 International product containing SNOMED CT to use, deploy or distribute, they must have an affiliate license for which they apply to SNOMED (web link above). Please be aware that fee may apply for SNOMED non-member countries. Does the HL7 development license only cover SNOMED CT International? Yes. The development license agreed between SNOMED and HL7 International cover the use of SNOMED CT International release in HL7 International product Are both extensional and intensional SNOMED CT value in HL7 International product included in the development agreement? The development license cover both intensional and extensional SNOMED CT value set in HL7 international products. How can the licensing process be made simple and clearer? HL7 International is putting in place a licensing statement for all terminology they use in their product for when user download an HL7 International product. The licensing statement make it clear that user are responsible for obtaining the appropriate license. If an HL7 affiliate in an IHTSDO non-member country take a code and description from an HL7 International repository or standard and us the IHTSDO browser to assist in mapping to local codes, is a license required? The agreement between HL7 International and SNOMED is for the development of HL7 International product and not for use, use requires an affiliate license in SNOMED non-member country which may involve a fee. (Note: The situation may change if HL7 International and SNOMED agree a set of SNOMED CT International code and description which can be used for free globally in HL7 International products) HL7 International is exploring the publication consideration and requirement for standard and repository i.e. standard may use intensional definition which need to be applied by a terminology service. HL7 FHIR may render these instruction and deliver code and description to user of the standards. Does HL7 International need a specific license for use of SNOMED CT in our standards, and in terminology services? HL7 International can publish product using SNOMED CT International that have been developed using the development license for HL7 International products. What type of restrictions/access requirement will be applied a part of the development license applied when developing HL7 International products? As discussed above, HL7 International is providing access to SNOMED CT International for HL7 International work group member who are contributing to the development of HL7 International products. The portal will require registration of the individual and the piece of work they are contributing to which requires this access. A request for the expansion of an intensional value set is done by a terminology server via an API. What access reporting requirement are necessary from the host of the terminology server and what are the licensing requirement for the requester? Assuming the terminology server is in an SNOMED Member country, any person or organization downloading from an IHTSDO member country's terminology server is individually responsible for ensuring they have the appropriate license to use SNOMED CT. Balloting What is the Ballot Desktop? The ballot desktop is the central site where you can: Join ballot pool Locate Ballot material Cast a vote Examine voting tally Examine comment from voter The tab at the top of the page allow you to navigate between the Home page, Voting page, and Tally page. The ballot desktop is located at: How do I get to the ballot website? The ballot desktop is located at What do the ballot type mean? There are four basic type of ballot - the letter designation indicate the ballot level: N - Normative I - Informative D - Standard for Trial Use O - Comment Normative - A normative ballot is intended to process and validate those specification intended for submission to ANSI for consideration a American National Standards. The normative ballot process shall adhere to the tenet of ANSI Essential Requirements: Due process requirement for American National Standards. Under normal circumstance the subject matter of a normative ballot will have at some point been subjected to a review ballot; however, there are a number of scenario where material may need to move directly to normative ballot, such a the need to respond to government mandate or to resolve a critical issue raised by a stakeholder or noted in an existing American National Standard. Informative - An informative document is the product of a work group that is not currently deemed normative, but nonetheless is intended for general publication. It explains or support the structure of the specifications, or provides detailed information regarding the interpretation or implementation of an HL7 specification. A work group may declare an informative document a US Realm-specific in that it function is to constrain a specification for implementation in the United States of America (USA). Standard for Trial Use (STU) - STU is used to provide the basis for proof of concept pilot project and objective assessment of the viability of implementation of the proposed standard. For Comment Only - A work group may submit proposed content or requirement documents, such a a domain analysis model (DAM), to comment-only review. The intent is to gather input from member outside of the work group on the viability and clarity of the proposed content or requirement document. The review of proposed content or requirement document doe not seek a vote, per se, but will capture all comments. A ballot to reaffirm an HL7 American National Standard (ANS) shall be submitted to a Comment-only Ballot to allow interested party to express their opinion by supporting reaffirmation, suggesting revision to update the ANS, or providing reason to withdraw the ANS. How do I sign up for a ballot? Navigate to the Ballot Desktop at . Signed-in Members should see on the "Home" tab a link to "Join a consensus group". Non-members can navigate to the ballot desktop but will need to pay fee to ballot. How do I cast a vote? Use the "Vote" tab on the Ballot Desktop at How do I find out more information on what the ballot is about? Please look up the related ballot item's project definition in Project Insight. There are over twenty (20) product type in HL7. Those voting should understand the product type that is being balloted Product type is found in Project Insight Ballot material will either be found on a link from the ballot website or presented for download Standards Where can I find the Intellectual Property (IP)? HL7 license the use of much of it IP at no cost. You can find all of our standard under the Standards tab. What are the step to download the Intellectual Property (IP)? All user must complete a click-through license registration process to participate. Members use their usual HL7.org login and non-members need to create an account. Find the standard you want via the Standards tab and follow the prompt including agreeing to the term of the license. I'm trying to download a standard, but I can't find it! The standard are available for download from the Standards section of the website. To access the downloads, log into the HL7 website (must be logged-in to be able to download) and click on the Standards link in the main navigation, then click the standard for which you wish to download documents. Affiliate member may also access this information by following their affiliate download link to the HL7 website. If you are an affiliate member and need additional help finding this link, please contact your affiliate. You must be a member in good standing to access the members' only document on the Standards section of the website (those that are restricted to members-only for the first 90 day of release). Why do non-members have to create a username and password (i.e. register on the website) to download a standard? We need to uniquely identify each individual in order to provide a license. What material is available at no cost? Standards that have already received ANSI approval are licensed at no cost. Additionally, published implementation guides, profile and domain analysis model (DAM), and current (although not expired) standard for trial use (STU) are licensed at no cost. HL7 member have early access to new HL7 standard a a member-only benefit; these will be licensed free-of-charge to non-members after three months. What other select intellectual property (IP) is available besides standard and implementation guides? Profiles and domain analysis model (DAMs) are considered other select IP. The HL7 Board determines on a case-by-case basis whether other IP such a tool will be licensed for at no cost. Are domain analysis model (DAMS) and functional profile licensed at no cost? Yes. Can I download the whole Normative Edition at no cost? Yes. The most current version of the Normative Edition is available for download at no cost to non-members three month after publication. Members have immediate access to all version of the Normative Editions. Are HL7 standard in the public domain? No. Our standard and selected intellectual property (IP) are available at no cost under a licensing agreement by which HL7 retains it copyright and specific term apply. Are user able to modify HL7 standards? No. HL7 retains the copyright and follows current process to make any needed change in the standards. Users are freely able to study, implement and develop product based on HL7 standard and create implementation profile under the licensing terms. The HL7 member community develops and maintains HL7 standard and other HL7 product through HL7 International a an accredited standard development organization (SDO), and in collaboration with it international affiliates, which also produce realm localizations.What is a derivative work? An example of a derivative work is an implementation guide. The US Copyright Office defines derivative work a follows: A derivative work is a work based on or derived from one or more already existing works. Also known a a "new version," a derivative work is copyrightable if it includes what copyright law call an "original work of authorship." Any work in which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modification represent, a a whole, an original work of authorship is a derivative work or a new version. I am an individual member. What type of derivative work can I create? Individual member can create the same type of derivative work a non-members a explained below. I am not a member. Can I create derivative works? HL7 authorizes non-members to create the following derivative works: Implementation guide for internal use only. Distribution of these outside your organization is not permitted. Profiles that assert conformance of a product to HL7 standards. Such conformance profile may be distributed without limitation. Translations of HL7 material into executable code or other machine processable form which result in the creation of a new work (in the form of an adaptation) that implement the material and is not regarded a a reproduction and distribution of excerpts. Such machine processable implementation (for example, interface software products) may be distributed without limitation. Technical documentation of your system(s); this may be created and distributed without limitation. Educational materials; these may be created and published without limitation. Translations of any of the above. Under the normal HL7 license term these derivative work may not contain excerpt of HL7 copyright material not otherwise permitted under US copyright law and may not carry the HL7 logo nor state or imply that they are endorsed by HL7. Who do I contact to get permission to create a derivative work not on the list above and what is the process for approving such a request? Requests to create or publish a derivative work should be addressed to . The HL7 Executive Committee will review and decide on all derivative work request that fall outside those authorized under the normal license terms. I'm an individual, student or health professional member. Why can't I share the freely licensed standard with others? HL7 is the sole licensing agent for it standards. We remain the source of truth by requiring people to come to our website and obtain a license. This also enables HL7 to track who is using it standard and which standard are being used most frequently. Collection of this type of data, which drive standard developments, is not possible if we allow everyone to share the standard with whomever they like. Organizational member are allowed to share the standard internally with their employees. Learn more at . What happens if I don't confirm or update my contact information? You will be unable to download any more standards. What will be done with the information that is collected on the license agreements? We will be tracking all standard that are being accessed and by which stakeholders. We hope to observe trend that will help u better understand our customer and their needs. Why can't I put your freely licensed standard on my intranet or share with my employees? Those wishing to share HL7 standard on their intranet or with their employee should become organizational member of HL7. While a non-member organization can accept a license for HL7 standards, each employee from that organization who wish to use the standard must obtain a license via the HL7 website. Why do I have to annually confirm or update my contact information? HL7 track the use of it standards. We cannot track this type of data without having current data on our licensees. Since the standard are being licensed at no cost, we do not feel that it is an unreasonable request for user to confirm or refresh their contact data annually. Information provided will not be shared with others and will be used for HL7 purpose only. What doe my organization need to do to become HL7 compliant? You will need to secure a copy of the standard, which provides the message (by domain) that any system claiming compliance to HL7 should be able to send/receive. HL7 standard are freely available for download, under licensing terms, from the section of the HL7 website. Trademarks and Intellectual Property How do I learn more about using HL7 Trademarks? Learn more by visiting our Guide to Using HL7 Trademarks page at: Where can I find HL7 Branding Guidelines? For information on how to use HL7 branded logos, please download the . Can member use Health Level Seven-owned trademarks? Any use of Health Level Seven-owned trademark (including the HL7 FHIR flame logo) to brand your product or service must be approved in writing by Health Level Seven by submitting a formal request via the . You may mention HL7, FHIR or other Health Level Seven-owned trademark if you are using the trademark in a plain language or "fair use" situation. Under fair use you may also use the HL7 logo a a link to www.HL7.org, and the HL7 FHIR logo to link to www.FHIR.org without requesting permission. See example of "fair use" below. All us of the [FLAME DESIGN] logo require the symbol. To seek approval to use an HL7 trademark to brand your product or service, send a request to . Really? Really. If people use the Health Level Seven-owned trademark without permission, it will likely create confusion a to what product or service are officially produced or authorized by Health Level Seven. This confusion damage Health Level Seven and it ability to serve member today and in the future. Are you telling me that I can't even mention HL7 or FHIR or other Health Level Seven-owned trademarks? You cannot use Health Level Seven-owned trademark to brand your own product or service without written permission. You may, however, mention HL7 or HL7 FHIR or other Health Level Seven-owned trademark if you are using the trademark in a plain language manner rather a a brand for your good or service if you are making what is often called a "fair use". Sounds like your lawyer wrote that last one. Can you help me out with some examples? Sure. Ask yourself this: Does your contemplated use of Health Level Seven-owned trademark refer to you or your services, or doe it refer to Health Level Seven or it services? If the usage refers to something owned by Health Level Seven, then it is likely an acceptable "fair use". If it refers to something owned by you or someone else, then it is an unacceptable "trademark use". Below are some example of "Fair Use": We provide all the training you need to comply with the HL7 FHIR standard. The CDA standard support efficient inter-enterprise information exchange. HL7s CCD implementation guide enables provider to effectively share patient summary data. Unacceptable "Trademark Use": Check out our FHIR IN THE HOLE workshop in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Our CDA AGENT software automates document creation. Here at CCD CONNECTIONS, we use the latest technology to help medical team communicate without loss of meaning and to enable improved patient care. The HL7 FHIR standard is open source. Doesn't that mean that I can use the HL7 FHIR mark whenever I want? No. Many open source product license explicitly exclude right to trademarks. See, e.g., . We encourage everyone to explore improving the HL7 FHIR standard, but only after a modified version is reviewed and approved by HL7 is it allowed to bear the HL7 FHIR mark. HL7 trademark protect our member by giving them the confidence to know that a particular version of a standard is consistent with the value and approved by HL7. For more information about the HL7 FHIR mark, please read the (pdf) and the (pdf). Are there time when I can use HL7 Trademarks without asking? You may use the trademark without asking for HL7 event (e.g., HL7 training course) that promote our common mission and are intended to be predominantly attended by HL7 member and sponsored by HL7. Using an HL7 trademark to promote non-HL7-sponsored conference and meeting require a license. You may use the non-stylized HL7 Word Mark to: Describe Community project (e.g. "Get trained in HL7 FHIR!"). Derivative work of a Community project in a way that is not misleading (e.g. "This standard is derived from the HL7 FHIR standard, but is not affiliated with, or approved or sponsored by, HL7) Make truthful statement about the HL7 standard and/or project in news report and commentary (e.g., The HL7 Working Group Meeting convened last week in San Antonio, TX). Make truthful statement about the HL7 project in personal blog and social medium a long a you do not imply endorsement by or affiliation to HL7. To avoid confusion, please do not use HL7 Word Marks in the background, a your profile image, or in the header of your blog. You should also not use the mark in the name of your blog or in your social medium username. Discuss HL7 project in artistic, scientific, literary, and political work or in presentation at public conferences. Please, however, send u a request via the if you want to place the FHIR Word Mark on the cover of your book or organize an event or presentation that could be interpreted to be endorsed by HL7. When do I need to apply for an HL7 FHIR trademark license? You need a license whenever you want to: List HL7 a a sponsor of your event or member of your group or collaborative Use one of the HL7 trademark to promote a product (software or swag handout), event (such a a hackathon or conference), or service (such a consulting or training). Use the HL7 Word Marks in a product name, domain, social medium handle, blog name or web page title (other than those associated directly with HL7). Once I get a license to use the Powered by HL7 FHIR mark on my product or event , can I declare my product or event a conforming to FHIR or endorsed by HL7? You can state that your product us the HL7 FHIR specification under fair use, but you cannot claim conformance until such time a formal conformance requirement have been published for FHIR, and you've met any conformance testing requirements. So if I'm using it in one of these "fair use" instance without a license, are there any rule I have to follow? Yes, you should adhere to the following rules: Include the following notice for the word mark and flame logo respectively placed near the first reference to the mark (once is enough) "FHIR is the registered trademark of Health Level Seven International and the use doe not constitute endorsement by HL7." "The Flame Design mark is the registered trademark of Health Level Seven International and the use doe not constitute endorsement by HL7." If space is constrained (as on a mobile device) you can include the registered trademark symbol after the FHIR Mark at least once on each page (if applicable) and generally in connection with the first or dominant usage. I'm offering a public training course at my university on FHIR, called "FHIR for Beginners" and preparing an ad. Do I need a license? Yes, you will need a license to use the Powered by HL7 FHIR mark, and you have to use the formal mark along with the proper notice. But it would be OK to generically refer to a training class on HL7 FHIR in the body of a document or posting without requesting a license, since that's fair use. But you can't use the mark in the name of this product/service without permission. I'm teaching a class on FHIR at a HL7-sponsored meeting. Do I need a license? No, you don't need a license to use the mark for an HL7-sponsored event or project. What's the bottom line? It is never OK to use Health Level Seven-owned trademark in the name of your product or service without prior written consent. It may be OK to use Health Level Seven-owned trademark in a regular English-language sentence if you are referring to Health Level Seven itself or an Health Level Seven-owned product or service. See the for more information. OIDs How do I learn more about obtaining an Object Identifier (OID)? Information on the HL7 Object Identifier (OID) Registry is available at: . This page contains info on how to obtain or register an OID, HL7 OID resources, OID Registry help and Other OID resources. For assistance on anything not covered in the above resources, please email . Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International HL7 Awards and Scholarships Health Level Seven (HL7) International, the global authority on interoperability of health information technology, offer a fellowship program, award and scholarship to recognize and reward those committed to our mission. HL7 John Quinn Fellowship Program HL7 John Quinn Fellowship Program The purpose of the HL7 John Quinn Fellowship Program is to recognize outstanding commitment and sustained contribution to HL7 International. Contributions may be reflected through serving a a working group or committee co-chair, serving on the board, receiving the W. Ed Hammond Volunteer of the Year award, serving a an Ambassador, making a presentation about HL7, publishing a paper about HL7 or other visible activity. The HL7 John Quinn Fellows represent the leadership of HL7 in the development of health information standards. HL7 FHIR Accelerator Awards Da Vinci Champion Award The Da Vinci Champion award showcase individual who have made significant contribution toward advancing implementation guide use. Joachim Dudeck Award Joachim Dudeck Award The Joachim Dudeck Award wa awarded for the first time at the International HL7 Interoperability Conference (IHIC) 2011 in Lake Buena Vista, FL. The award will be granted on an annual basis a part of the IHIC event in memory of Joachim Dudeck, who wa the founder, longtime president and first honorary member of HL7 Germany a well a the first affiliate director of the HL7 Board of Directors and founder of the International HL7 Interoperability Conference. Volunteer of the Year Award HL7 Volunteer of the Year Award The annual W. Edward Hammond, PhD Volunteer of the Year Award wa established in 1997. The award is named after Dr. Ed Hammond, one of HL7's most active volunteer and a founding member a well a past Board chair. The award recognizes individual who have made significant contribution to HL7's success. Woody Beeler Memorial Scholarship The Woody Beeler Memorial Scholarship for Healthcare Interoperability This scholarship is funded by friends, family and co-worker of Woody Beeler a well a those who share his passion for enabling healthcare interoperability through technology and his belief in accomplishing this aim through partnership and community building. The scholarship support individual who, like Woody, demonstrate strong commitment for healthcare interoperability through concrete action and result above and beyond commercial interest. The scholarship build on Woody's vision by enabling committed individual with limited financial mean to attend HL7 working group meeting and fully participate in the HL7 international community. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > Standards Introduction to HL7 Standards HL7 Standards Licensed At No Cost Health Level Seven International is proud to announce that our primary standard and other select product are now licensed at no cost. Adopted HL7 Standards RIM Looking for the ? Show the world you have standard Get to show the world you have standards! After you've completed your certification, don't forget to download your digital badge at . HL7 and it member provide a framework (and related standards) for the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information. These standard define how information is packaged and communicated from one party to another, setting the language, structure and data type required for seamless integration between systems. HL7 standard support clinical practice and the management, delivery, and evaluation of health services, and are recognized a the most commonly used in the world. For more information about the HL7 standard process, please read . HL7 standard are grouped into reference categories: - Primary standard are considered the most popular standard integral for system integrations, inter-operability and compliance. Our most frequently used and in-demand standard are in this category. - Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Products - These standard provide functional model and profile that enable the construct for management of electronic health records. - FHIR Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources - Version 2 (V2) - HL7 Version 3 (V3) - a suite of specification based on HL7's Reference Information Model (RIM) - The Arden Syntax is a formalism for representing procedural clinical knowledge in order to facilitate the sharing of computerized health knowledge base among personnel, information system and institution - HL7 Clinical Context Management Specification (CCOW) is aimed at facilitating the integration of application at the point of use, a a standard for both internal application programming and runtime environment infrastructure that complement HL7's traditional emphasis on data interchange and enterprise workflow. - Cross-paradigm/ Logical Level Standards e.g. Domain Analysis Models - Messaging and document standard for clinical specialty and group are found in this section. These standard are usually implemented once primary standard for the organization are in place. - This section is for implementation guide and/or support document created to be used in conjunction with an existing standard. All document in this section serve a supplemental material for a parent standard. - Technical specifications, programming structure and guideline for software and standard development. All HL7 Standards can also be located by other classification such a ANSI/ISO/HITSP approval and various search variable in our HL7 encompasses the complete life cycle of a standard specification including the development, adoption, market recognition, utilization, and adherence. Please refer to our for more information about how member and non-members can use the standards. For the latest published update about HL7 standards, please visit For information on how to use HL7's FHIR Trademarks that are consistent with our common mission, please refer to our. To provide feedback on the standards, especially Standards for Trial Use (STU) see the Confluence page on For historical reference to STU comments, see the As of 2016 May, the wa updated to reflect the naming of Standards for Trial Use. Prior to this time the term "Draft Standards for Trial Use" wa in effect. You will see both DSTU and STU naming reflected in the listing of Trial Use Standards. Over the course of several year the trial period on the older DSTU will expire and new STU are published. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Reference Information Model HL7 Reference Information Model The Reference Information Model (RIM) is the cornerstone of the HL7 Version 3 development process. An object model created a part of the Version 3 methodology, the RIM is a large, pictorial representation of the HL7 clinical data (domains) and identifies the life cycle that a message or group of related message will carry. It is a shared model between all domain and, a such, is the model from which all domain create their messages. The RIM is an ANSI approved standard. Download the RIM (8.95 MB) Release 7 of the ANSINormative RIM Reaffirmation 12/10/2021 of ANSI/HL7 V3 RIM, R7-2016, 7/28/2016 (19.33 MB) Release 6 of the ANSINormative RIM (7.03 MB) (5.66 MB) Release-5 of the ANSI Normative RIM. (7.22 MB) (11.60 MB) (15.24 MB) (12.16 MB) This is Release-4 of the ANSI Normative RIM. (11.43 MB) (10.95 MB) (10.15 MB) This is Release-3 of the ANSI Normative RIM. (10.34 MB) (25.82 MB) (12.85 MB) (9.76 MB) This is Release-2 of the ANSI Normative RIM. (10.10 MB) (10.24 MB) (9.55 MB) (10.85 MB) (10.65 MB) (10.06 MB) (9.51 MB) (17.87 MB) (9.10 MB) (9.04 MB) (15.51 MB) (15.73 MB) (18.03 MB) (27.33 MB) (14.41 MB) Basis for Normative Edition 2007 (14.86 MB) (10.17 MB) Jan-06 (9.83 MB) (17.02 MB) (7.40 MB) (7.37 MB) (7.76 MB) Mar-05 (7.25 MB) Basis for Normative Edition 2005 (7.08 MB) (6.96 MB) (8.50 MB) (7.32 MB) Mar-04 (7.06 MB) (6.87 MB) (6.53 MB) 7/2003 Note that this is Release-1 of the ANSI Normative RIM (8.10 MB) (6.99 MB) (6.49 MB) (6.25 MB) Jan-03 (6.89 MB) (5.30 MB) (4.78 MB) (5.04 MB) (5.01 MB) (5.02 MB) (4.97 MB) (4.27 MB) Jan-02 (4.83 MB) (4.11 MB) (4.05 MB) This and the four preceding it were developed in a single week of RMIM/RIM design testing. (3.44 MB) (2.73 MB) (2.75 MB) (2.97 MB) (3.05 MB) (2.13 MB) (2.66 MB) (4.03 MB) (3.72 MB) (5.71 MB) 1/2001 The first RIM not labeled a "draft" (4.64 MB) (3.33 MB) (1.69 MB) (4.63 MB) (4.22 MB) (3.18 MB) (2.94 MB) (3.82 MB) 1/2000 The first RIM to begin adopting USAM principles. (2.70 MB) (3.40 MB) (2.48 MB) (2.00 MB) (2.33 MB) (2.13 MB) Jan-99 (1.86 MB) (2.07 MB) (1.56 MB) (1.47 MB) (1.47 MB) Jan-98 (2.05 MB) (1.10 MB) (625 KB) 1/1997 The first RIM subjected to harmonization. (981 KB) (743 KB) (647 KB) (1.08 MB) (47 KB) Jun-96 This site provides the RIM in various form - Rose mdl file, XMI, Access data base and so forth. However, it usually doe not have the most recent Vocabulary content. The most current Access data base for both RIM and Vocabulary is always available a a Design Repository ("rimRepos" download) from the HL7 Project Gforge site under the Versions of the HL7 RIM are available here only a Composite ZIP file that contain ALL relevant file for that version. The file name within these archive indicate the type of information available. See a listing of the naming structure, below. Current Naming Convention Specifics of file content within the archive can be found on the for most of the content. The following coding is used for the model file names: DDDVVVVT DDD - Domain - For the HL7 Reference Information Model, this value is always "rim". VVVV - HL7 Version a four-digit sequence. T - Type. This refers to the type of file available on the model page. Defined type are: The type code for the overall composite archive is "c". Thus for RIM 2.38, the composite archive is rim0238c.zip. The content of this archive is made up of the following file types: a - Archive, a zip file holding a MIF archive (mif:package) file whose content is made up the complete current RIM, and change-elements for ALL prior RIM versions. Any given prior RIM can be extracted from this archive. c - Composite, a ZIP file of ALL of the other ZIP file in this list. d - Definition the current RIM and current vocabulary represented in "coremif" definition (DEFN) file a a "mif:staticModel" and "mif:vocabularyModel", respectively. These definition can be opened for browsing with the RoseTree application. f - Difference, a file (readable in html) that show where the current RIM differs from the prior version. g - Graphics, a set of file in Visio and GIF format that contain the graphic expression for the current model. i - XMI, an expression of the current RIM in the OMG UML 2.2 XMI standard. Includes the RIM xmi and a collection of "profiles" upon which the RIM is dependent. n - Notes, complete set of note and proposal from the RIM harmonization meeting that reviewed the change that are incorporated in the current models. r - readMe, a text file with note about this version of the model and the file that are posted here. t - Enterprise Architect file, the complete model a an EAP file suitable for loading into Enterprise Architect. x - XML, a set of small XML file that will be used short-term (during 2012) to inform the V3 Generator of the RIM and data type version to use for generation. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 ANSI Approved Standards RSS ANSI Approved Standards Health Level Seven is one of several (ANSI) -accredited Standards Developing Organizations (SDOs) operating in the healthcare arena. Most SDOs produce standard (sometimes called specification or protocols) for a particular healthcare domain such a pharmacy, medical devices, imaging or insurance (claims processing) transactions. Health Level Seven's domain is clinical and administrative data. HL7 FHIR R4 Infrastructure, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 FHIR R4 INFRASTRUCTURE R1-2019 (R2024) Date Approved:4/18/2024 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 FHIR R4 INFRASTRUCTURE R1-2019, 2019-03-22 State:Active HL7 FHIR R4 Observation, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 FHIR OBS R1-2019 (R2024) Date Approved:4/16/2024 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 FHIR OBS R1-2019, 2019-08-09 HL7 FHIR R4 Patient, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 FHIR R4 PATIENT R1-2019 (R2024) Date Approved:4/16/2024 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 FHIR R4 PATIENT R1-2019, 2019-03-22 HL7 FHIR R4 Terminology & Conformance, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 FHIR R4 TERMINOLOGY R1-2019 (R2024) Date Approved:4/16/2024 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 FHIR R4 TERMINOLOGY R1-2019, 2019-08-09 HL7 Cross Paradigm Implementation Guide: UDI Pattern, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 IG UDI, R2-2020 (R2024) Date Approved:4/16/2024 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 IG UDI, R1-2019, 2020-06-24 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Retrieve, Locate, and Update Service (RLUS), Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 RLUS, R1-2013 (R2024) Date Approved:4/12/2024 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 RLUS, R1-2013 (R2019), original date 2013-02-22, 7/19/2019 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Identification Service (IS), Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 IS, R1-2014 (R2024) Date Approved:4/12/2024 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 IS, R1-2014 (R2019), original date 4/1/2014, 5/31/2019 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Structured Product Labeling, Release 8 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 SPL, R8-2018 (R2023) Date Approved:12/5/2023 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 SPL, R8-2018 2018-02-27 State:Stable HL7 Specification: Characteristics of a Value Set Definition, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 VSD, R1-2019 (R2023) Date Approved:12/5/2023 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 VSD, R1-2019 2019-03-01 State:Active HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Emergency Medical Services; Patient Care Report Release 3 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 CDAR2L3IG EMSRUNRPT, R3-2023 Date Approved:4/10/2023 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 CDAR2L3IG EMSRUNRPT, R2-2016 (R2021) State:Active HL7 Version 2: XML Encoding Rules, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V2 XML, R2-2012 (R2022) Date Approved:12/5/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V2 XML, R2-2012 (2012-06-09), 1st Reaffirmation (2017-12-14) State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) Service-Oriented Architecture Implementation Guide, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7V3IG SOA KM INFOBUTTON, R1-2013 (R2022) Date Approved:12/5/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7V3IG SOA KM INFOBUTTON, R1-2013, 8/9/2013 HL7 Version 3 Standard: Registries; Real Time Location Tracking, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 REG RTLTM, R1-2011 (R2022) Date Approved:11/18/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 REG RTLTM, R1-2011 9/23/2016 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Transport Specification - ebXML Using eb MS2.0. Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 TR ebXMLebM2, R1-2012 (R2022) Date Approved:11/10/2022 Information:Originally approved on 5/31/2012 and reaffirmed on 8/18/2017 and 11/10/2022 State:Stable HL7 Version V3 GELLO Implementation Guide: Clinical Decision Support, Model Definition Language for GELLO, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 GELLO IG CDS MDL, R1-2017 (R2022) Date Approved:11/10/2022 Information:reaffirmation of original publication 2017-04-17 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Representation of the Health Quality Measures Format (eMeasure), Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 HQMF, R1-2017 (R2022) Date Approved:9/29/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of original publication 2015-06-15 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Domain Analysis Model: Diet and Nutrition Orders, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 DAM DIETORD, R2-2017 (R2022) Date Approved:8/2/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 DAM DIETORD, R2-2017 2017-01-06 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Transmission Infrastructure, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 IMTRANS, R2-2016 (R2022) Date Approved:8/2/2022 Information:revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 V3 IM R1.1-2013, initially approved 2016-08-05 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: GELLO; A Common Expression Language, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 GELLO, R2-2010 (R2022) Date Approved:3/24/2022 Information:reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 GELLO, R2-2010, R-2016 State:Stable HL7 EHR-System Pharmacist/Pharmacy Provider Functional Profile, Release 1 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHRRXPROVFP, R1-2012 (R2022) Date Approved:3/15/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 EHRRXPROVFP, R1-2012 (R2017) State:Stable HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIR Shorthand, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 FHIR IG SHORTHAND, R2-2022 Date Approved:2/11/2022 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Common Terminology Services, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 CTS, R2-2015 (R2022) Date Approved:1/18/2022 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 CTS, R2-2015 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) Access Control, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 PASSAC, R1-2017 (R2021) Date Approved:12/16/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 PASSAC, R1-2017, 1/9/2017 State:Stable HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Personal Healthcare Monitoring Reports, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 CDAR2 PHMRPTS, R1-2017 (R2021) Date Approved:12/10/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 CDAR2 PHMRPTS, R1-2017, 2017-01-03 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Reference Information Model, Release 7 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RIM, R7-2016 (R2021) Date Approved:12/10/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 RIM, R7-2016, 7/28/2016 State:Stable HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Privacy Consent Directives, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 CDAR2 IG CONSENTDIR, R1-2017 (R2021) Date Approved:12/9/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 CDAR2 IG CONSENTDIR, R1-2017, 2017-01-17 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report, Part 2: Human Pharmaceutical Reporting Requirements for ICSR, R2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP2, R2-2012 (R2021) Date Approved:12/9/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP2, R2-2012 (R2016) State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report, Part 1: The Framework for Adverse Event Reporting, R2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP1, R2-2012 (R2021) Date Approved:12/9/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP1, R2-2012 (R2016) State:Stable HL7 EHRS-FM Release 2: Personal Health Record System Functional Model, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 PHRSFM, R2-2021 Date Approved:10/12/2021 Information:.revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 PHRSFM, R1-2014, 2014-05-13 State:Stable HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Quality Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA III), Release 1 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 CDAR2 QRDA3, R1-2021 Date Approved:9/13/2021 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Healthcare (Security and Privacy) Access Control Catalog, Release 3 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RBAC, R3-2016 (R2021) Date Approved:8/9/2021 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 V3 RBAC, R3-2016 2016-10-5 State:Stable HL7 EHR System Long Term Care Functional Profile, Release 1 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHR LTCFP, R1-2010 (R2021) Date Approved:8/9/2021 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 EHR LTCFP, R1-2010, 2016-01-22 State:Stable HL7 Privacy and Security Logical Data Model, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 PSIM, R1-2021 Date Approved:6/10/2021 State:Active HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Healthcare Associated Infection Reports, Release 3 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 CDA R2IG HAIRPT, R3-2020 Date Approved:12/1/2020 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 CDAR2IG HAIRPT R2-2015 State:Stable HL7 Cross-Paradigm Specification: Clinical Quality Language, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 CQLANG, R1-2020 Date Approved:12/1/2020 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Refinement, Constraint and Localization to Version 3 Messages, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RCL, R2-2007 (R2020) Date Approved:12/1/2020 Information:reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 RCL, R2-2007 (8/20/2007, 9/9/2015) State:Stable HL7 EHR-System Electronic Nutrition Care Process Record System (ENCPRS) Functional Profile, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHRS FM FP ENCPRS, R2-2020 Date Approved:10/15/2020 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI), Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V26 IG EHDI, R1-2020 Date Approved:10/1/2020 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 2 Specification: Conformance, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V2 Conformance, R1-2020 Date Approved:9/18/2020 Information:Revision and partition of ANSI/HL7 V2.9-2019 State:Active HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Newborn Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects (CCHD), Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V26 IG CCHD, R1-2020 Date Approved:8/3/2020 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy and Security Architecture Framework, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 PSAF, R1-2020 Date Approved:7/28/2020 Information:. State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Regulated Product Submission, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RPS, R2-2015 (R2020) Date Approved:7/27/2020 Information:Reaffirmation 2020 of initial publication 2015-07-10 State:Stable HL7 Electronic Health Record System Functional Model, Release 2.1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHR, R2.1-2020 Date Approved:6/30/2020 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 EHR, R2-2014 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration; Person Registry, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 PAPRSNREG, R1-2015 (R2020) Date Approved:4/27/2020 Information:Originally approved 1/16/2015 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Shared Messages, Release 3 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 COMT, R3-2010 (R2020) Date Approved:4/27/2020 Information:reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 COMT, R3-2010, also 2/12/2016 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Implantable Device Cardiac - Follow-up Device Summary, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 IDC, R2-2013 (R2020) Date Approved:4/27/2020 Information:Originally approved 10/11/2013 State:Stable HL7 EHRS-FM Release 2: Immunization Functional Profile, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHRS IFP, R1-2020 Date Approved:3/17/2020 Information:. State:Active HL7 Cross-Paradigm Specification: FHIRPath, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 NMN R1-2020 Date Approved:1/16/2020 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Laboratory; Result, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 LBRESULT, R1-2009 (R2020) Date Approved:1/10/2020 Information:Reafirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 LBRESULT, R1-2009 R2014 11/21/2014 State:Stable HL7 Service-Aware Interoperability Framework: Canonical Definition Specification, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 SAIF CANON, R2-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:12/30/2019 Information:First approved 2014-11-7, Reaffirmed 2019-12-30 State:Stable HL7 Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2.1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 CDA, R2.1-2019 Date Approved:12/6/2019 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 CDA, R2-2005 (R2015) State:Active Health Level Standard Standard Version 2.9 - An Application Protocol for Electronic Data Exchange in Healthcare Environments Designation:ANSI/HL7 V2.9-2019 Date Approved:12/6/2019 Information:. State:Active Health Level Standard Standard Version 2.9 - An Application Protocol for Electronic Data Exchange in Healthcare Environments Designation:ANSI/HL7 V2.9-2019 Date Approved:12/6/2019 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Data Segmentation for Privacy (DS4P), Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 IG DS4P, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:9/13/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 IG DS4P, R1-2014 2014-05-13 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Transport Specification - MLLP, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 TRMLLP, R2-2006 (R2019) Date Approved:9/6/2019 Information:8/14/2006, first reaffirmed on 11/1/2011. State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Unified Communication Service Interface, Release 1 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 SOA EPSSRVINT, R1-2019 Date Approved:8/30/2019 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Event Publish & Subscribe Service Interface, Release 1 - US Realm Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 SOA UCRSVINT, R1-2019 Date Approved:8/30/2019 Information:. State:Active HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval Application (Infobutton), Release 4 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3IG INFOB, R4-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:8/15/2019 Information:2014-06-05 reaffirmed 2019-08-15 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-Aware Retrieval Application (Infobutton); Knowledge Request, Release 2 (revision of ANSI/HL7 V3 INFOB, R1-2010) Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 INFOB, R2-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:8/12/2019 Information:2014-06-05 reaffirmed 2019-08-12 State:Stable Health Level Seven Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems, Version 2.10 Designation:ANSI/HL7 Arden V2.10-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:8/1/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 Arden V2.10-2014 2014-11-07 State:Active HL7 Version 3 Standard: Clinical Statement Pattern, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 CSP, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:8/1/2019 Information:Reaffimation of ANSI/HL7 V3 CSP, R1-2014 2014-7-4 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Regulated Studies - Annotated ECG, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 ECG, R1-2004 (R2019) Date Approved:8/1/2019 Information:Reaffimation of ANSI/GHL7 V3 ECG, R1-2004 (2014) 2014-12-12 State:Stable HL7 EHR Behavioral Health Functional Profile, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHR BHFP, R1-2008 (R2019) Date Approved:8/1/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 EHR BHFP, R1-2008 (R2014) 2014-04-11 State:Stable HL7 EHR Child Health Functional Profile, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHR CHFP, R1-2008 (R2019) Date Approved:8/1/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 EHR CHFP, R1-2008 (R2014) 2014-4-11 State:Stable HL7 EHR Clinical Research Functional Profile, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHR CRFP, R1-2009 (R2019) Date Approved:8/1/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 EHR CRFP, R1-2009 (R2014) 2014-12-12 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification - V3 Structures for Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3XMLITS STRUCT4WFCR1DT, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:7/31/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3XMLITS STRUCT4WFCRIDT, R1-2014 original date 3/14/2014 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification - Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3XMLITS WFCR1DT, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:7/31/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3XMLITS WFCR1DT, R1-2014 originally approved 2014-03-27 HL7 Healthcare Privacy and Security Classification System, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 PRIVECLASSSYS, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:6/7/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 PRIVECLASSSYS, R1-2014, original date 8/8/2014 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services; Security Labeling Service, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 PASS SECURITY LABELSRV, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:6/7/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 PASS SECURITY LABELSRV, R1-2014, original date 6/20/2014 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration; Patient Registry, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3PA PATREG, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:6/7/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3PA PATREG, R1-2014, original date 12/12/2014 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Scheduling, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 SC, R2-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:6/7/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 SC, R2-2014, original date 12/12/2014 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Personnel Management, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 PM, R1-2005 (R2019) Date Approved:6/7/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 PM, R1-2005 (R2014) State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Security and Privacy Ontology, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 SECPRONT, R1-2014 (R2019) Date Approved:5/31/2019 Information:Reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 SECPRONT, R1-2014, original date 5/23/2014 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification - V3 Structures, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 XMLITSSTR, R2-2013 (R2018) Date Approved:4/20/2018 Information:reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 XMLITSSTR, R2-2013; 8/16/2013 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification R2; ISO-Harmonized Data Types, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 ISODT, R1-2013 (R2018) Date Approved:4/20/2018 Information:reaffirmation of ANSI/HL7 V3 ISODT, R1-2013; 8/30/2013 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Common Product Model, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 CPM CMET, R1-2014 Date Approved:9/5/2014 Information:. HL7 EHR-System Functional Model, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 EHR, R2-2014 Date Approved:4/21/2014 Information:A revision of ANSI/HL7 EHR, R1-2007. HL7 Version 3 Standard: Reference Information Model, Release 6 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RIM, R6-2013 Date Approved:8/6/2013 Information:. HL7 Version 3 Standard: Infrastructure Management; Control Act, Query and Transmission, Release 1.1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 IM, R1-2013 Date Approved:4/24/2013 Information:Revision and redesignation of ANSI/HL7 V3 IM, R1-2004, superseded by ANSI/HL7 IMTRANS, R2-2016 HL7 Version 3 Standard: Role-based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RBAC, R2-2010 Date Approved:2/18/2010 Information:This is a revision of ANSI/HL7 V3 RBAC, R1-2008 HL7 Version 3 Standard: Transport Specification - ebXML, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 TR ebXML, R1-2008 (R2013) Date Approved:7/3/2008 Information:This standard wa reaffirmed on 6/7/2013. HL7 Version 3 Standard: Regulated Product Submission, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RPS, R1-2008 Date Approved:3/6/2008 HL7 Version 3 Standard: Implantable Device Cardiac - Follow-up Device Summary, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 IDC, R1-2006 Date Approved:11/2/2006 HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification - Structures, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 XMLITSSTR, R1-2005 (R2013) Date Approved:9/26/2005 Information:This standard wa reaffirmed on 6/7/2013. State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Shared Messages, Release 2 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 COMT, R2-2005 Date Approved:8/11/2005 Information:This is a revision of ANSI/HL7 V3 COMT, R1-2004 HL7 Version 3 Standard: Infrastructure Management, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 IM, R1-2004 Date Approved:10/20/2004 Information:superseded by ANSI/HL7 V3 IM, R1-2013 State:Stable HL7 Version 3 Standard: Scheduling, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 SC, R1-2003 Date Approved:12/17/2003 HL7 Version 3 Standard: Refinement, Constraint, and Localization to Version 3 Messages, Release 1 Designation:ANSI/HL7 V3 RCL, R1-2003 Date Approved:10/9/2003 Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > IP Policy Copyright Policy HL7 Policy Governing the Use of HL7 International Standards and Other Intellectual Property Health Level Seven International (HL7) standard and other "Material," a defined below, and Material acquired through any channel (including through any HL7 Affiliate) are governed by the term of this HL7 policy. All such Material are copyrighted by HL7 and protected by the Copyright Law of the United States and copyright provision of various international treaties. "Material" collectively and individually mean all work product developed and or released by HL7, including standard in any format (e.g., Word, PDF, HTML, XML, zip, Access database), implementation guides, database and other electronic or fixed data or information of any kind distributed through any channel (including through any HL7 Affiliate). "Specified Material" collectively and individually mean those item of Material from time to time designated by the Board of Directors a being available for free use. The item of Specified Materials made available to Members, a compared to Non-Members, and to some category of Members a compared to others, shall be a from time to time designated by the Board of Directors. "Other Material" collectively and individually mean all Material that is not Specified Material. Any use, copying or distribution (either with or without a fee) of Material, or development, copying or distribution of derivative works, whether in fixed or electronic media, not specifically authorized below is strictly prohibited. The following is a summary of the license right and restriction applicable to varying class of Members, and to non-Members, in Specified Material, which can be found in greater detail in the full license term applicable to such constituencies. HL7 AFFILIATES in good standing have such right to use and distribute (or provide access to) Material a are from time to time permitted under the Affiliate Agreement with HL7 to which they are a party, subject to the term of such agreement. HL7 ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS are authorized, without additional charge, to: reproduce and distribute Specified Material on an internal basis solely for use within their organization; reproduce and distribute excerpt of Specified Material (not entire domain or chapters) to any customer of a product or service implementing those Specified Material, provided that the HL7 Access database may not be included, either in whole or in part, in any product intended for direct or indirect commercial resale; use excerpt of Specified Material to create customized implementation guides; and use Specified Material in the development of product and service that implement Materials. This authorization is provided only during the year when the appropriate HL7 Organizational Membership due are paid, and if and only if: HL7 is clearly identified a publisher and holder of the copyright; and, any modification of the Material are clearly identified to end user in the text. HL7 INDIVIDUAL AND STUDENT MEMBERS, who register and agree to the term of HL7's IP policy are authorized, without additional charge, to read, and to use Specified Material to develop and sell product and service that implement, but do not directly incorporate, the Specified Material in whole or in part without paying license fee to HL7. INDIVIDUAL AND STUDENT MEMBERS wishing to incorporate additional item of Specified Material in whole or part, into product and services, or to enjoy additional authorization granted to HL7 ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS a noted above, must become ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS of HL7. NON-MEMBERS who register and agree to the term of HL7's IP policy for Specified Material, are authorized, without additional charge, to read and use the Specified Material for evaluating whether to implement, or in implementing, the Specified Material, and to use Specified Material to develop and sell product and service that implement, but do not directly incorporate, the Specified Material in whole or in part. NON-MEMBERS wishing to incorporate additional item of Specified Material in whole or part, into product and services, or to enjoy the additional authorization granted to HL7 ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS a noted above, must become ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS of HL7. Other Material: Other Material shall be available for use, if at all, on such license term (including a to cost) and to such Members and Non-Members a the Board shall from time to time determine. SPECIAL PERMISSIONS: Other us of Material, including redistribution, creation of derivative work (e.g., incorporation into standard by government agencies), may be permitted by HL7, in it sole discretion, subject to execution by the licensee of a written agreement satisfactory to HL7. By your acceptance of this Agreement, you agree to comply with the , , and HL7 Policy Governing the Use of HL7 Standards, HL7 Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property, which are incorporated herein by reference. HL7, HL7 (Design), HEALTH LEVEL SEVEN, CARE CONNECTED BY HL7 (Design), CCD, CDA, GreenCDA, FHIR and the [FLAME DESIGN] are the registered trademark of HL7 and registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The unauthorized use of the HL7, HL7 (Design), CARE CONNECTED BY HL7 (Design), HEALTH LEVEL SEVEN, CCD, CDA, GreenCDA, FHIR and the [FLAME DESIGN] trademark is strictly prohibited. All non-trademark us of the foregoing mark should include the or symbol a appropriate and indicate in text that: "_________ is the registered trademark of Health Level Seven International and the use doe not constitute endorsement by HL7." For example: "HL7, CDA, FHIR and the FHIR [FLAME DESIGN] are the registered trademark of Health Level Seven International and the use doe not constitute endorsement by HL7." For more information about trademark owned by HL7, visit , the and the . Please contact if you have any question regarding the use of HL7's registered or common law trademarks. By your application for, or renewal of, any category of HL7 membership you agree to comply with the , , and HL7 Policy Governing the Use of HL7 Standards, HL7 Trademarks and other Intellectual Property. Ownership. Licensee agrees and acknowledges that HL7 owns all right, title, and interest, in and to the Trademarks. Licensee shall take no action contrary to, or inconsistent with, the foregoing. Licensee agrees and acknowledges that HL7 may not own all right, title, and interest, in and to the Materials and that the Materials may contain and/or reference intellectual property owned by third party ("Third Party IP"). Acceptance of these License Terms doe not grant Licensee any right with respect to Third Party IP. Licensee alone is responsible for identifying and obtaining any necessary license or authorization to utilize Third Party IP in connection with the Materials or otherwise. Any actions, claim or suit brought by a third party resulting from a breach of any Third Party IP right by the Licensee remains the Licensee's liability. Following is a non-exhaustive list of third-party terminology that may require a separate license: Terminology Owner/Contact Current Procedures Terminology (CPT) code set American Medical Association SNOMED CT SNOMED International or Logical Observation Identifiers Names & Codes (LOINC) Regenstrief Institute International Classification of Diseases (ICD) code World Health Organization (WHO) NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy code set American Medical Association. Please see . AMA licensing contact: 312-464-5022 (AMA IP services) Obtaining a CPT Sublicense from HL7 Contact about how to obtain a sublicense from HL7 for non-production use of CPT for (i) the development and publication of value sets, profiles, and other artifact a part of the HL7 Implementation Guides, (ii) a part of defined VSAC value sets, and (iii) to support HL7's terminology service within the Territory. Flow Down Clauses for CPT Sublicense from HL7 CPT content is copyrighted by the American Medical Association and CPT is a registered trademark of the AMA. HL7, a a party to a license agreement with the AMA, is authorized to grant user a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable license for user to use CPT content for (i) the development and publication of value sets, profiles, and other artifact a part of the HL7 Implementation Guides, (ii) a part of defined VSAC value sets, and (iii) to support HL7's terminology service within the Territory, each of which shall be considered a non-production use. The sublicense granted hereunder shall automatically terminate upon termination of the agreement between HL7 and AMA, unless prior written consent of AMA is obtained. The provision of updated CPT content is dependent on a continuing contractual relationship between HL7 and the AMA. User acknowledge a separate license agreement shall be required, and shall govern any proposed use, including any distribution of CPT content for any other purpose not expressly permitted under this Agreement, and the term of such agreement will govern such use (e.g., a separate license agreement shall govern production use and commercial purposes). AMA reserve the right to accept or reject license based on AMA's evaluation of the proposed use of the CPT content. User acknowledge that User's development and commercialization of CPT-informed work developed with reference to Licensed Products may only be implemented in the Territory. User is prohibited from making CPT content publicly available, creating derivative work (including translating), transferring, selling, leasing, licensing, or otherwise making available to any unauthorized party the CPT content, or a copy or portion of CPT content to any unauthorized party, including a subsidiary, affiliate, or other legal entity, however designated, for any purpose whatsoever except a expressly permitted under a separate agreement. User expressly acknowledges and agrees to the extent permitted by applicable law, use of CPT content is at User's sole risk and CPT content is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. The AMA doe not directly or indirectly practice medicine or dispense medical services. Fee schedules, relative value units, conversion factor and/or related component are not assigned by the AMA, are not part of CPT, and the AMA is not recommending their use. CPT content herein doe not replace the AMA's Current Procedural Terminology book or other appropriate coding authority. The coding information contained in CPT content should be used only a a guide. U.S. Government End Users. CPT is commercial technical data, which wa developed exclusively at private expense by the American Medical Association (AMA), 330 North Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60611. This agreement doe not grant the Federal Government a direct license to use CPT based on FAR 52.227- 14 (Data Rights - General) and DFARS 252.227-7015 (Technical Data - Commercial Items). User expressly consent to the release of it name to the AMA. Updated 04/19/2024 Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Become a Member Become a Member Why Join HL7 International? HL7 membership offer valuable resource and service for healthcare providers, government stakeholders, payers, pharmaceutical companies, vendors/suppliers and consulting firms. HL7 membership benefit include: Influence the technical and policy environment of the future by voting on standard Show the industry that you are a leader who is helping to make interoperability a reality Manage your implementation cost and speed time to market Access industry information to help make more informed business decision Learn best practice from industry leader Opportunities to promote implementation case study Ability to run for leadership position Discounts on meeting and educational opportunity Free and discounted job posting on HL7 Job Board Need more info? (pdf) (vimeo) (pdf) Talk to someone about membership option and choose the best option for your organization! To get started, please fill out the form on the right side of this page and a representative will contact you. Please note: all HL7 membership are non-refundable. Members may not use, copy, or distribute HL7 standard for any purpose other than personal participation in the maintenance and development of HL7 standards. For more details, please refer to the. Choose Your Membership Level Benefactor Membership For organization that want the highest level of membership, including the maximum number of voting members, greatest training discounts, and enhanced recognition for your organization. Gold Membership For organization that want additional benefit such a discounted training and increased access to HL7 experts. Organizational Membership For organization that want the standard benefit of HL7 membership. Individual Membership For individual who want to be involved with HL7 but whose organization do not have a membership. A is available for those who qualify. Those interested in a retiree membership (must meet the following qualifications: retired, 65+ year of age, and a member of HL7 for 10+ years) can contact . Request More Information Membership Benefits At a Glance Select Member Benefits Individual* Organizational Gold Benefactor Maximum number of voting member Early bird discount on all meetings, all the time Opportunity to promote implementation case study Free half-day seat at HL7 WGM tutorial every year Special recognition in HL7 press release and promotional material Special recognition in HL7 newsletter and on the website Ability to transfer voting right to other individual within the organization Ability to share excerpt of standard Ability to post standard on company intranet Significant discount on HL7 meeting registration and other educational offering Free Member Advantage webinars Immediate access to HL7 standard Access to HL7's Global Membership Directory Be sure to review the complete list of membership benefit for each level to select the membership option that is right for you and your organization. *Applies to full individual membership, not the student membership. Note: All HL7 Memberships are non-refundable. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > Benefactors Benefactors Accenture Accenture's Health & Life Sciences professional deliver innovation and insight to both the private and public sector of the marketplace, which includes integrated healthcare providers, health insurers, managed care organizations, public health organization and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical product companies. Allscripts With the largest connected community of client in healthcare, Allscripts delivers an integrated platform of solution to facilitate enhanced collaboration and exchange of critical patient information. Were committed to delivering One Network, One Platform, One Patient. American Medical Association The AMA is working with physician to advance initiative that will help them navigate and succeed in a continually evolving health care environment. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/CDC The mission of the CDC is to promote health and quality of life by preventing and controlling disease, injury, and disability. As the nation's prevention agency, we accomplish our mission by working with partner throughout the nation and the world to: monitor health, detect and investigate health problems, conduct research to enhance prevention, develop and advocate sound public health policies, implement prevention strategies, promote healthy behaviors, foster safe and healthful environments, and provide leadership and training. Coalition for Health AI Duke Clinical & Translational Science Institute The DCRI is the world's largest academic clinical research organization. We combine the clinical expertise and academic leadership of a premier teaching hospital with the full-service operational capability of a major contract research organization. Edifecs, Inc. Edifecs is a leading healthcare technology company with the mission to improve healthcare outcomes, reduce cost and accelerate innovation. We empower healthcare organization to scale the partnership required by payment, care delivery and access reform initiative that are redefining the healthcare industry.We are disruptors, scientists, data nerds, doctor and artists.And we believe information technology can revolutionize healthcare. Epic Epic make software for mid-size and large medical groups, hospital and integrated healthcare organization working with customer that include community hospitals, academic facilities, children's organizations, safety net provider and multi-hospital systems. Our integrated software span clinical, access and revenue function and extends into the home. European Medicines Agency The mission of the European Medicines Agency is to foster scientific excellence in the evaluation and supervision of medicines, for the benefit of public and animal health in the European Union (EU). EMA is protecting human and animal health by facilitating the development and access to medicines, evaluating application for marketing authorisation, monitoring the safety of medicine across their life cycle, and providing reliable information on human and veterinary medicine in lay language. The Agency also play a role in supporting research and innovation in the pharmaceutical sector, and promotes innovation and development of new medicine by European micro-, small- and medium-sized-enterprises. Federal Electronic Health Record Modernization Office Providing our Service members, Veterans, and their family with world-class health care is of the utmost importance for both the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). A key component of this mission is ensuring interoperability between the Departments and their private partners. The DoD/VA Interagency Program Office (IPO) jointly oversees and monitor the effort of the Departments in implementing national health data standard for interoperability. Additionally, the IPO serf a the single point of accountability for identifying, monitoring, and approving the clinical and technical data standard and profile necessary to ensure seamless integration of health data between the DoD, VA, and the private sector. Food and Drug Administration The FDA is responsible for protecting the public health by assuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, medical devices, our nation's food supply, cosmetics, and product that emit radiation. The FDA is also responsible for advancing the public health by helping to speed innovation that make medicine and food more effective, safer, and more affordable; and helping the public get the accurate, science-based information they need to use medicine and food to improve their health. Google InterSystems Highlights of Products and ServicesEstablished in 1978, InterSystems is a leading provider of technology for extremely critical data in the healthcare, finance, and manufacturing and supply chain sectors. Its cloud-first data platform solve interoperability, speed, and scalability problem for large organization around the globe. InterSystems also develops and support uniquely managed service for hospital EMRs, unified care record for community and nations, and laboratory information management systems. InterSystems is committed to excellence through it award-winning, 247 support for customer and partner in more than 80 countries. Clients include the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, Intermountain Healthcare, Kaiser Permanente, and thousand of other successful organizations. Leading software provider also leverage InterSystems high-performance technology in their own products. These organization include Epic Systems, Optum, 3M Health Information Systems, and hundred of others. Privately held and headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, InterSystems ha 25 office worldwide. For more information, please visitOur solution and technology are designed to seamlessly meet the interoperability need of health and life science organizations:is a data platform which support the rapid development of highly scalable healthcare solution and advanced healthcare interoperability technology.To learn more, go toHealthShareUnified Care Record provides industry-acclaimed data aggregation, normalization, deduplication, and care management capability to create a unified, community-wide health record a the foundation for coordinated, value-based care and population health management.HealthShareHealth Connect is the high-performance integration engine delivering proven process management monitoring and support for massive transaction volume to keep your critical healthcare application running.InterSystems TrakCareunified healthcare information system transforms care delivery and the patient experience, and provides clinical, administrative, and financial information a a single source of truth for each patient in one electronic patient record (TrakCare is available outside the U.S. only).Highlights of the Use of the HL7 StandardsAt InterSystems we invest time and resource to stay on the cutting edge of the HL7 standard and build HL7 FHIR into a common technology stack for all our products. Some of the common use case include:Bridging between FHIR and other standard and document format such a HL7v2 and CDAEnabling new application to access legacy data by transforming the data to FHIR resourcesProviding a FHIR server implementation supporting a standard FHIR RESTful APIProvisioning a FHIR resource repository supporting all FHIR resource typesInterSystems ha been be a Benefactor Member of HL7 for two decades, in addition to our active membership in the HL7 Da Vinci Project, Project Vulcan, and the Carin Alliance. We're proud to support many of our application partner who use InterSystems technology and are also member of HL7. We actively participate in HL7 affiliate in many of the 38 affiliate countries.For more information, visit Kaiser Permanente Kaiser Permanente is America's leading integrated health plan. Founded in 1945, it is a not-for-profit, group practice prepayment program with headquarters in Oakland, California. Kaiser Permanente serf the health care need of over 8.2 million member in 9 state and the District of Columbia. Today it encompasses the not-for-profit Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and their subsidiaries, and the for-profit Permanente Medical Groups, a well a an affiliation with Group Health Cooperative based in Seattle. Nationwide, Kaiser Permanente includes approximately 136,000 technical, administrative and clerical employee and over 11,000 physician representing all specialties. Mass General Brigham Mass General Brigham is an integrated academic health care system, uniting great mind to solve the hardest problem in medicine for our community and the world. Mass General Brigham connects a full continuum of care across a system of academic medical centers, community and specialty hospitals, a health insurance plan, physician networks, community health centers, home care, and long-term care services. Mass General Brigham is a nonprofit organization committed to patient care, research, teaching, and service to the community. In addition, Mass General Brigham is one of the nation's leading biomedical research organization with several Harvard Medical School teaching hospitals. NCQA The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) exists to improve the quality of health care.We work for better health care, better choice and better health. Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT Health information technology (health IT) make it possible for health care provider to better manage patient care through secure use and sharing of health information. Health IT includes the use of electronic health record (EHRs) instead of paper medical record to maintain people's health information. Optum Optum is a health service and Innovation company whose mission is to help people live healthier life and the help make the health system work better for everyone.We are tackling the biggest challenge in health care by partnering across the entire system.Together, we transforing health care for a better future for eveyone we serve.Our partner choose u for our combination of unique capabilities.As a global team of 125,000+, our skill and expertise is matched only by the commitment and passion we share to transform health care. Oracle Pfizer Pfizer is a research-based global biopharmaceutical company whose purpose is grounded in our belief that all people deserve to live healthy lives. This drive our desire to provide access to medicine that are safe, effective, and affordable. Philips Healthcare Royal Philips (NYSE: PHG, AEX: PHIA) is a leading health technology company focused on improving people's health and enabling better outcome across the health continuum from healthy living and prevention, to diagnosis, treatment and home care. Philips leverage advanced technology and deep clinical and consumer insight to deliver integrated solutions. Headquartered in the Netherlands, the company is a leader in diagnostic imaging, image-guided therapy, patient monitoring and health informatics, a well a in consumer health and home care. Philips' health technology portfolio generated 2016 sale of EUR 17.4 billion and employ approximately 73,000 employee with sale and service in more than 100 countries. News about Philips can be found at." PointClickCare PointClickCareTechnologies is acompanydeveloping a healthcare technology platform that connects care, services, and financial operations. Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated Quest Diagnostics, a leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, is also a leader in the innovative use of standards-based technology for clinical laboratory service and disease management programs. Enterprise-wide deployment of HL7 and LOINC standard enable rapid interchange and integration of physician, patient, and third party data to provide unparalleled diagnostic insights. Ready Computing LLC Ready Computing ("Ready") is a full-service IT firm, specializing in software product and service that address the need of health and social care. From health information exchange, to population health, to care coordination, to community network resource management, Ready ha delivered many world class solution to healthcare organization around the globe.Established in 2011 and headquartered in New York City, Ready ha focused much of it effort on the definition of healthcare interoperability standard and the implementation of those standard in the product and service it delivers to it clients. Through a continuous loop of creativity and innovation, Ready help the standard evolve and it solution improve through "real world" project experiences. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is part of the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). As a major healthcare provider, VHA operates more than 170 medical center and 600 clinic and contract an additional $1B a year to outside provider for veteran healthcare. We are directly impacted by numerous internal and external factor such a government legislation and directives, the healthcare industry, the information technology industry and internal restructuring. Like many other organization the VHA ha been charged with reducing cost in a way that systematically produce clear, measurable and improved performance that translates into improved product and services. Each of these factor generates different pressure and make the interchange of healthcare information critical. Additionally, our size and complexity create special technical issue for us.VHA belief a major part of the solution to these challenge is through participation in the Health Level Seven organization. We are pleased to be a benefactor member and consider the success of HL7 a strategically important to us. VHA intends to be an early adopter of the HL7 Version 3 model and is particularly excited over the possibility of XML. We plan to be a major participant in the Government Projects SIG and look forward to partnering with other member a we expand our internal commercial off-the-shelf portfolio and develop additional provider relationships. A goal is to increase our involvement with the HL7 organization in the spirit of returning something for the many benefit we accrue. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Gold Members Gold Members Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics is the world's largest organization of food and nutrition professional founded in Cleveland, Ohio, in 1917, by a visionary group of woman dedicated to helping the government conserve food and improve the public's health and nutrition during World War I. Today, the Academy ha over 100,000 credentialed practitioner - registered dietitian nutritionists, dietetic technicians, registered, and other dietetics professional holding undergraduate and advanced degree in nutrition and dietetics, and student - and is committed to improving the nation's health and advancing the profession of dietetics through research, education and advocacy. ADVault, Inc. Healthcare is complicated, accessing advance directive information doesn't have to be.A|D Vault help healthcare provider and payer "put the patient at the center of care" when it matter the most with the industry's first truly interoperable digital suite of advance care planning tool and cloud-based storage accessible anytime and anywhere. Alphora Alphora is a right-sized consulting firm driven to architect and construct quality, data-driven business solutions. Altarum Altarum is a national nonprofit whose mission is to create a better, more sustainable future through idea and action that transform American health and healthcare. The IT expert in Altarum's Center for Connected Health are advancing population health and care coordination through the development of progressive registries, integration tools, and interoperability services. American College of Physicians The American College of Physicians (ACP)is a diverse community of internal medicine specialist and subspecialists united by a commitment to excellence. Internists apply scientific knowledge and clinical expertise to the diagnosis, treatment, and compassionate care of adult across the spectrum from health to complex illness. With 161,000 member in country across the globe, ACP is the largest medical-specialty society in the world. ACP and it physician member lead the profession in education, standard-setting, and the sharing of knowledge to advance the science and practice of internal medicine. Apothesource Inc Association of Public Health Laboratories The Association of Public Health Laboratories work to strengthen laboratory system serving the public's health in the US??and globally. ASSYST, Inc. ASSYST ha been providing Health IT service and solution for the Healthcare sector for over 25 years. ASSYST Health IT practice support federal, state, and local government and health and human service programs. We are involved in Global Health initiative of Non-Profits and International Development agencies. ASSYST customer include Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), several state and local HHS programs. ASSYST Hephaestus () work with any leading EHR solution, operates in a distributed cloud infrastructure, and support cloud API implementations. Hephaestus HL7 FHIR aPaaS solution evolved out of ASSYST's Green Accelerator Program. ASSYST Green Accelerator provides customer with a best-in-class operational environment to validate business rules, conformance rules, use cases, and perform proof of concept based on the HL7 FHIR specification any Healthcare related profile. Hephaestus provides customer an opportunity to validate their proof of concepts, ideate, architect, and co-create innovative solution to achieve the HL7 FHIR specification and conformance requirements. Availity LLC Availity is anindustry-leading, HITRUST-certified healthcare information technology company thatautomates business and clinical information sharing between provider practices, hospitals, and health system and health plan nationwide.Through a suite of dynamic product built on a powerful, intelligent platform, Availity solutionsimprove collaboration and reduce administrative waste in healthcare.Facilitating over 8 million transaction daily, Availity's ability to provide accurate, timely, and relevant information is vital to the financial success of it clients. Availity is also an early adopter of the HL7 FHIR standard for data sharing. For more information, including an online demonstration, please visitor call 1.800.AVAILITY (282.4548). Azuba Corporation Azuba provides a secure and accessible enterpriseNational Lifetime Clinical Records Platformthat enablesPatientsto automate the retrieval/distribution of their clinical data from/to all of their Providers (doctors/hospitals) via their smartphone.In addition, we helpPayersManage High-Cost Members;Partnerswith Smartphone Apps Reduce Time-to-Market; andProvidersReduce Diagnosis and Treatment Error Rates.For more information or a customized online demonstration, please visitor call 1-630-884-1000. Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Since 1929, Blue Cross Blue Shield ha led the healthcare industry by rising to the challenge that change brings, enabling new discovery and continuing to evolve. Learn more about our history, what we are doing today and our commitment to providing access to high-quality, affordable healthcare coverage for all Americans. BlueCross BlueShield of Alabama Since 1936, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alabama ha been doing their part to provide quality, affordable healthcare coverage to each and every one of their members, at every stage of their lives. They are proud to be the number one provider of healthcare benefit in Alabama. C-HIT CAL2CAL Corporation Sound strategy is the cornerstone of success and a prerequisite for high performance. In a successful organization, the decision-makers must ass the market and environment accurately, and develop a winning strategy.Leveraging leading-edge technology and global business experience, CAL2CAL collaborates with it client to refine strategy and help them achieve high performance. We help our client create value and architect change through our unique spectrum of management consulting and IT solution that work - solution that allow for improved competitive position, better performance, and efficient utilization of resources.Our Management Consulting service are broadly divided into the following areas:Business StrategyIT Strategy & ArchitectureBusiness IntelligenceChange ManagementOutsourcing Strategy Carradora Health, Inc. Carradora Health, Inc.is a woman-owned small business dedicated to serving customer by providing healthcare information technology solution across government and commercial spaces. Our team's exceptional background in providing personalized and innovative solution distinguishes Carradora Health a a leading partner in Healthcare IT by offering project management services, technical expertise, and subject matter expert in a variety of fields. CCS Health CITRIOM LLC At CITRIOM, we build high end technology solution for empowering great business ideas, transforming them into daily life experiences.We deeply care about the Health Industry a one of our core development areas. We provide consulting service to private and public organization in their goal to build technology platform and service to operate in compliance with required standard and best practice Computable Publishing LLC Computable Publishing LLC augments digital publishing with machine- interpretable forms. Our mission is to make science machine- interpretable, or in more words, to enable standard-based machine- interpretable expression of public knowledge, especially related to healthcare and scientific evidence. Computrition, Inc. For more than 35 years, Computrition ha been the leading provider of foodservice software in the healthcare, university, long-term care, military and correction industries. Their software product have increased the efficiency and productivity in these market segments, specifically in their foodservice, nutrition services, and retail operations. Staffed by dietitians, former foodservice directors, business and service professional and certified technical specialists, Computrition posse the expertise necessary to deliver the highest quality product and service with a focus on customer satisfaction. Connecticut Department of Public Health The Connecticut Department of Public Health exists to protect and improve the health and safety of the people of Connecticut by:Assuring the condition in which people can be healthy;Preventing disease, injury, and disability, andPromoting the equal enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health, which is a human right and a priority of the state. Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists The Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) is the professional organization representing applied public health epidemiologists. CSTE work to advance public health policy and epidemiologic capacity, foster effective relationship among state and other health agencies, and provide technical advice and assistance to partner organization and to federal public health agency such a the CDC. CSTE member have surveillance and epidemiology expertise in a broad range of area including occupational health, infectious diseases, environmental health, substance use, injury, informatics and more. CU Anschutz Medical Campus We are a world-class medical destination at the forefront of transformative education, science, medicine and healthcare.From heart disease to cancer, Alzheimer's to COVID-19, we are solving the biggest health problem today and advancing the life-changing discovery of tomorrow.At the CU Anschutz Medical Campus, the possibility are truly endless. Dogwood Health Consulting Inc. Double Lantern Informatics Double Lantern Informatics is committed to using health care informatics to further the delivery of equitable health care, improve lives, and support our local and global neighbor in living a life founded on well-being and joy. The Double Lantern team collaborates with client team to provide informatics solution program development, event facilitation, project management, communication and technology training to advance change emphasizing the importance of local capacity building so team feel supported in sustaining project following launch. Learn more at. Drummond Group Drummond Group offer comprehensive compliance, security, and risk management service to healthcare, financial services, and other regulated industries. Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc (DDI) is a small healthcare consulting firm that is located in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.We provide consulting service for many organization who need help with HL7 specifications.We have experience with V2, V3, FHIR, and terminology support.Along with our vast expertise in implementing healthcare standards, we also provide education, either in-person or remotely, on HL7's standards. EMI Advisors LLC Evernorth Evernorth is Cigna's growing, high-performing health service portfolio. We bring together and coordinate premier health service offering to deliver innovative and flexible solution for health plans, employers, and government programs. Our mission is to tackle health care's biggest challenge using our unique vantage point at the center of what can be a fragmented system to create comprehensive solution to complex problems. EyeMD EMR Healthcare Systems, Inc. EyeMD EMR Healthcare Systems is committed to the ophthalmology specialty and sub-specialties of Retina, Cornea, Pediatrics and Glaucoma. Firely USA Graphite Health Greater Rochester RHIO Health Care Service Corporation Our experienced health care attorney and health care compliance and privacy compliance certified staff operate at the forefront of healthcare law and compliance matter to assist our client in complying with ever-changing regulatory requirements. We provide operations, compliance, business, transactional, litigation, and regulatory assistance. Health Intersections Pty Ltd Hi3 Solutions Hi3 Solutions is a privately owned Health Information Technology vendor headquartered in Los Angeles, California. It provides HIT products, education, and consulting service that enable it client to engage effectively in health information exchange, health data integration, and health care quality measurement required to establish and comply with evidence-based best practice in healthcare. Humanized Health Consulting ICF ICF is a global consulting service company with approximately 7,500 full- and part-time employees, but we are not your typical consultants. At ICF, business analyst and policy specialist work together with digital strategists, data scientist and creatives. We combine unmatched industry expertise with cutting-edge engagement capability to help organization solve their most complex challenges. Since 1969, public and private sector client have worked with ICF to navigate change and shape the future. ICHOM The International Consortiumfor Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) is an independent not-for-profit founded in 2012 by Professor Michael E. Porter of Harvard Business School, Dr. Stefan Larsson of the Boston Consulting Group, and Professor Martin Ingvar of the Karolinska Institute. ICHOM's mission is to unlock the potential of value-based healthcare by defining global standard set of outcome measure that matter most to patient and driving adoption and reporting of these measure worldwide to create better value for all stakeholders.In 2021 ICHOM, in collaboration with MRDM, launchedthe ICHOM Global Benchmarking Platform which provides the healthcare community the first ever platform to benchmark patient outcome internationally, enabling faster learning and improvement of healthcare across the globe. Intelligent Medical Objects (IMO) Intelligent Medical Objects is a privately held company specializing in developing, managing and licensing medical vocabularies. IMO partner with various health care organizations, medical content provider and EHR developers. iNTERFACEWARE, Inc. Since our inception in 1997, we have remained dedicated to our founding belief that we can provide the best integration experience possible. We simplify interoperability through the power of innovation.Our devotion to continue developing innovative solution to the most challenging integration problem is fueled by the resounding support and success of our valued customers.With software and service trusted globally by hospitals, software vendors, HIEs and government health departments, we continue to reinvest in and reshape our technology. Our commitment to this approach ensures that our partner receive the highest quality tool that achieve the highest ROI.Our innovative software solution are complimented by an intense focus on supporting the people who use them. We recognize that our continued success is dependent upon our ability to help our customer deliver faster and more efficient integrations. Labware, Inc. Logibec Massachusetts Health Data Consortium The Massachusetts Health Data Consortium is dedicated to active and effective collaboration among member of the Commonwealth's health care community in their use of data, analysis, and information technology to achieve sustainable improvement in quality, cost, and effectiveness. MedCom MedCom is a publicly owned Danish non-profit standard organization, which develops national standard for interoperability for messaging, services, and document sharing.MedCom test and certifies IT system using MedCom standards, for both public and private organizations, a well a approving access to the Danish Healthcare Network. MedCom is responsible for the Danish Healthcare backbone infrastructure and the majority of standard for national interoperability between primary and secondary sector and for citizens.MedCom is member of HL7 Denmark and facilitates development and approval of Danish core FHIR-profiles. Meridian Analytics Michigan Health Information Network Michigan Health Information Network Shared Services (MiHIN) is a public and private nonprofit collaboration dedicated to improving the healthcare experience, improving quality and decreasing cost for Michigan's people by supporting the statewide exchange of health information and making valuable data available at the point of care. Microsoft Corporation Microsoft is committed to improving health around the world through software innovation. Over the past 13 years, Microsoft ha steadily increased it investment in health, with a focus on addressing the challenge of health providers, health and social service organizations, payers, consumer and life science company worldwide. Microsoft closely collaborates with a broad ecosystem of partner and develops it own powerful health solutions, such a Amalga and HealthVault. Together, Microsoft and it industry partner are working to advance a vision of unifying health information and making it more readily available, ensuring the best quality of life and affordable care for everyone. Milliman IntelliScript The Milliman IntelliScript system is a proven method for insurance company to quickly gather and review their applicants' prescription histories. Milliman IntelliScript delivers complete and current prescription history that allow insurer to make instant underwriting decision with confidence. Insurers use Milliman IntelliScript to gather prescription information in real time and then review an easy-to-read online report. This cost-saving approach to obtaining health history result in fast and effective risk assessment. MY Synergy Ltd. MY Synergy is a health-tech consultancy dedicated to improving healthcare through digitalization. We trust the potential of technology to dramatically improve patient well-being and enhance the work of medical professionals. Our vision is simple and clear - to digitalize, enhance & enable healthcare for all. Next, we boarded on a mission to analyze, optimize, and automate process in healthcare with digital product & solutions. We strive to improve patient outcome and the overall patient experience by empowering value-based healthcare initiatives. National Association of Community Health Centers The(NACHC) wa founded in 1971 to promote efficient, high quality, comprehensive health care that is accessible, culturally and linguistically competent, community directed, and patient centered for all. National Association of Dental Plans NADP is the representative and recognized resource of the dental benefit industry. NADP is the largest non-profit, national trade association focused exclusively on the entire dental benefit industry, i.e. dental HMOs, dental PPOs, discount dental plan and dental indemnity products.NADP's mission is to promote and advance the dental benefit industry to improve consumer access to affordable, quality dental care. National Marrow Donor Program For the thousand of people diagnosed every year with life-threatening blood cancer like leukemia and lymphoma, a cure exists. Over the past 30 year Be The Match, operated by the National Marrow Donor Program(NMDP), ha managed the largest and most diverse marrow registry in the world. We work every day to save life through transplant. NICTIZ NICTIZ's task is to support the creation of a system which will allow an improved flow of information for and on behalf of the patient/client, making use of the potential of IT, with a view to raising the quality and effectiveness of healthcare. As an impartial and neutral organization, NICTIZ make it possible for the various party involved to exchange view and ideas, and it also stimulates initiative and coordinate them where necessary.NICTIZ is the abbreviation of the Dutch name for the National IT Institute for Healthcare. It is an impartial and neutral organization in which all party involved in the healthcare process take part: provider of care (doctors, hospitals, etc.), recipient of care (patients and their organizations), health insurer and the government. North Star Health Solutions A leader in the healthcare industry. We specialize in assisting our client with operationalizing and integrating resource to drive more purposeful patient engagement, improve satisfaction with quality measures, and achieve enhanced financial outcomes. Our expertise lie in optimizing healthcare operation to deliver the best possible experience for both provider and patients. Northwestern Medicine Northwestern Medicine is a growing, nationally recognized health system that provides world-class care at10 hospital and more than 200 location in community throughout Chicago, the suburb and northern Illinois. Together with Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, we are pushing boundary in our research labs, training the next generation of physician and scientists, and pursuing excellence in patient care.Our vision and value are deeply rooted in the idea that patient come first in all we do. We value building relationship with our patient and their families, listening to their unique need while providing individualized primary, specialty and hospital-based care. Our recent affiliation and ongoing growth make it possible for u to serve more patients, closer to where they live and work.The geographical reach of Northwestern Medicine meet the growing demand for quality health care close to where people live and work. Our patient have access to evidence-based medicine and research that is translated to clinical practice, offering new hope through leading-edge approach to health, wellness and disease.Northwestern Medicine caregivers, including more than 4,800 physician on medical staff, provided care for more than 111,000 inpatient admission and more than 2.9 million outpatient encounter in fiscal year 2019. Onyx Technology LLC Onyx provides healthcare interoperability product and service payers, providers, government agency and their existing solution provider including health information exchange (HIEs), vendor and application developers.Onyx is a passionate supporter of standards-based interoperability and is a contributor to HL7 Work Groups and accelerator project in addition to the ONC FHIR At Scale Taskforce.We provide healthcare organization with the ability to accelerate improved outcome and efficiency by making it possible to share data, via standards-based interoperability solutions, with traditional stakeholder (payers and providers) and non-traditional stakeholder (patients, family caregiver and community-based organizations). P.G.M.D. Consulting S.r.l. PGMDis a company that provides consultancy, products, and service in the field of information systems, including the creation and management of complex IT structures, with a particular focus on Healthcare and Public Administration. Based on the specific skill and professional path of individual consultants, P.G.M.D. can offer support in the following areas:ICT Governance, Audit and Program/Project ManagementBusiness Process Management and Business Process ReengineeringStrategic Performance Management and Balanced Scorecard Public Health Informatics Institute PHII is a program of the Task Force for Global Health, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization and affiliate of Emory University. Since 1992, the Public Health Informatics Institute (PHII) ha led the charge in establishing informatics a a recognized discipline critical to building capacity in the field of public health. Working in partnership with public health associations, professional at all level of public health practice and expert in informatics, PHII ha assisted public health organization in defining and leveraging the power of information and information system to meet public health needs. Redox Redox standardizes data, maintains integrations, and get technology in the hand of patient and providers. Regenstrief Institute, Inc. Founded in 1969 in Indianapolis, Indiana, theis a local, national and global leader dedicated to a world where better information empowers people to end disease and realize true health. The Regenstrief Institute and it researcher are responsible for a growing number of major health care innovation and studies. Examples range from the development of global health information technology standard that enable the use and interoperability of electronic health record to improving patient-physician communications, to the creation of model of care that inform practice and improve the life of patient around the globe. The Institute serf a the steward for development of theandstandards. Remo Health Remo Health is a virtual dementia care provider designed to support patient and their caregivers, from pre-diagnosis through end-of-life. We deliver world-class clinical care through a dedicated team of on-demand specialists. Get the latest evidence-based guidance, resources, and support, from leading brain health experts.Caregiving is hard, and you don't have to do it alone. Join our community to get real answer from real people. Rhoads Systems Inc. RTI International Samvit Solutions Samvit Solutionsis a health informatics companyfocused on providing business and technical requirement analysis, standard development and program management servicesin thehealthcare and life science initiatives. They provide enterprise level business process analysis, system modeling, and requirement analysis service to software developmentefforts. They partnerwith development company to provide a complete software solution.Samvit team member areactive participant in the clinical research data exchange standard development efforts. Security Risk Solutions, Inc. (SRS) SMART Health IT SMART Health IT is an open, standard based technology platform that enables innovator to create apps that seamlessly and securely run across the healthcare system. Using an electronic health record (EHR) system or data warehouse that support the SMART standard, patients, doctors, and healthcare practitioner can draw on this library of apps to improve clinical care, research, and public health. Systex, Inc. The Sequoia Project The Sequoia Project is a non-profit, 501c3, public-private collaborative chartered to advance implementation of secure, interoperable nationwide health information exchange. The Sequoia Project focus on solving real-world interoperability challenges, and brings together public and private stakeholder in forum like the Interoperability Matters cooperative to overcome barriers. Sequoia also support multiple, independently governed interoperability initiatives, such a the RSNA Image Sharing Validation Program and the Patient Unified Lookup Service for Emergencies (PULSE), a system used by disaster healthcare volunteer to treat individual injured or displaced by disasters.Sequoia previously supported the successful launch and growth of the eHealth Exchange health information network; and Carequality, which operationalized a national-level, interoperability framework to interconnect health information networks. Both eHealth Exchange and Carequality transitioned to operate under their own corporate structure and governance in October 2018.For more information about The Sequoia Project and it initiatives, visit. Follow The Sequoia Project on Twitter: Therap Services LLC Therap Services is a web-based service organization that provides an integrated solution for documentation, reporting and communication need of agency providing support to people with developmental disabilities. U.S. Department of Defense, Military Health System On the battlefield, every element of the Military Health System (MHS) come together to make the difference between life and death. Army, Navy and Air Force medical professional help ensure those in uniform are medically ready to deploy anywhere around the globe on a moment's notice. And these medical professional are also ready to go with them. There isn't another military medical force like it in the world-with the expertise, the asset and the global reach of our health system.he MHS, however, is more than combat medicine. It's a complex system that weave together:Health care deliveryMedical educationPublic healthPrivate sector partnershipsCutting edge medical research and developmentExemplified by personal courage and a drive for excellence, the MHS is changing how health care is delivered throughout the United States and the world. UC Davis Health A national reputation for life-changing biomedical discoveries, a passion for clinical care, and a commitment to caring for underserved community these are the hallmark of UC Davis School of Medicine. UNC Health United Physicians Univ of TX Health Science Center San Antonio University of Arkansas Medical Sciences UAMS, with it intersection of education, research, and clinical programs, brings a unique capacity to lead health care improvement in Arkansas. Among it asset for leadership are it status a the only academic health center in the state, it statewide network of center for public education and clinical outreach, it emphasis on population health, and it leadership in health informatics and statewide information technology. In addition, UAMS ha a unique capacity for translational research speeding the rate at which research can inform clinical care and health improvement. USAging USAging is the national association representing and supporting the network of Area Agencies on Aging and advocating for the Title VI Native American Aging Programs. Our member help older adult and people with disability throughout the United States live with optimal health, well-being, independence and dignity in their home and communities.USAging and our member work to improve the quality of life and health of older adult and people with disabilities, including supporting people with chronic illness, people living with dementia, family caregiver and others who want to age well at home and in the community. Together, we are ensuring that all people can age well. Our member are the local leader that develop, coordinate and deliver a wide range of home and community-based services, including information and referral/assistance, case management, home-delivered and congregate meals, in-home services, caregiver supports, transportation, evidence-based health and wellness programs, long-term care ombudsman program and more. UW Medicine Information Technology Services UW Medicine ha a single mission:To Improve the Health of the Public. The 30,000 member of their community advance this mission through the excellence of their work in patient care, medical education and research. Velatura Services Velatura Services creatively connects and aligns people, organizations, technology, ideas, and information to improve the way healthcare information is exchanged today through professional service and best in class technology solutions. VICO Open Modeling VICO Open Modeling, associated withand, provides an open, decentralized and, driven by an Enterprise Service Bus. We are building trustworthiness into digital healthcare network using interoperability middleware, certified by IHE, and working with HL7 Certified Specialists, OpenESB Certified Architects and UML-OMG Certified Experts. VNB Health Solutions VNB Health Solutions, a subsidiary of VNB Consulting Services is focused on providing end to end Interoperability and Analytics solution for Healthcare Providers. Washington State Department of Health Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International HL7 Organizational Members Search Category: All -Alpha Listing Affiliate Benefactors Consultant Government/University Payer Pharmaceutical Provider Supplier/Vendor Organization: 1-25 of 381 Page: 1 1-25 of 381 Page: 1 Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International You must be a a member of HL7.org to access this resource. Click to send an email to the Webmaster > Resources Resources With the support of our members, HL7 develops technical standard with the potential to transform healthcare technology system everywhere. To support the further development of standards, their implementation, and to help individual with any bump along the way, HL7 ha gathered an exhaustive collection of resource and tool for individual looking for implementation solutions, wanting to get involved with standard development, and other specialist resources. Get Involved Share your skill and expertise. Join a special interest group or technical committee. Make your voice heard. Specification Feedback: , , , Specialist Resources A searchable database of certified member with the type of certification, location, country, and date. The directory is updated on the first business day of each month. Contains information about HL7, HL7 process and other item relevant to Co-Chairs, Facilitators, Accelerators or anyone with an interest in gaining a basic understanding of the HL7 organization and it's processes. HL7 Terminology material comprises the Code Systems and Value Sets which are cited in HL7 Published artifact in a convenient browsable form. View job posting available or submit your own listing. The HL7 Job Board connects employer with HL7 specialists. Search active and archived HL7 projects. This tool display information from Project Insight based on Project Scope Statements a well a project status updates. Find Solutions A library of case study and white paper illustrating how HIT professional are using HL7 standard to improve and advance modern healthcare. An extremely helpful collection of tool and resource to aid creating and implementing HL7 standards. Various tool and resource collected to provide TSC guidance in creating and implementing HL7 standards. A list of documented procedures, training, template and guideline currently used by Health Level Seven International. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Case Studies and Reports Case Studies & Reports A library of case studies, ebooks, white paper and podcasts illustrating how HIT professional are using HL7 standard to improve healthcare. For questions, please contact Patricia Guerra (). Case Studies (2.09 MB) AEGIS Shield Methodology is helping to change the context of testing by integrating testing discipline into HL7FHIR Implementation Guide creation to improve FHIR implementation and resulting interoperability. (2.11 MB) CareNexus us HL7FHIR to connect community-based provider and patient with the right patient data at the right time. (2.11 MB) Using HL7 SMART on FHIR, a clinical decision support (CDS) tool wa developed that combine state-level prescription drug monitoring program data and EHR data to help provider make safer decisions. (2.08 MB) Cuestionario app us HL7FHIR to allow non-technical user to develop, distribute, and analyze healthcare forms, surveys, and questionnaire at scale, in any language desired. (2.02 MB) Developing an EHR-embedded prior authorization automation solution using HL7FHIR standards. (2.03 MB) Developing HL7FHIR guideline to improve information sharing through a patient matching tool to help ensure both payer and provider know which member are covered under a value-based contract. (2.04 MB) A centralized hub wa developed using HL7 FHIR resource to facilitate aggregation, transformation and analysis of clinical and public health data from multiple hospital a well a state and federal agencies. (2.17 MB) Using HL7 SMART on FHIR resource to give patient easier access to their health data while also bringing advanced analytics and insight to community hospital clinicians. (2.24 MB) Through this partnership, two SMART on FHIR application were developed and pilot tested to improve the management of chronic pain through shared decision-making between provider and patients. (2.08 MB) To address potentially inappropriate opioid prescribing, HealthPartners developed a provider-facing, point- of-care, clinical decision support (CDS) tool within an EHR that us the HL7 FHIR standard. (2.20 MB) Creating an interactive, graphic-based application using SMART on FHIR to integrate the ASCVD risk calculator into clinician workflow within the EHR to automatically calculate a patient risk of having a heart attack or stroke. (2.28 MB) Using AI and HL7 FHIR-based algorithms, the foundation is being laid to enhance a nationwide adverse event electronic reporting system while minimizing the burden on healthcare practitioners. (2.25 MB) Developing a SMART on FHIR application that embeds directly into the EHR to aid clinician in monitoring patient opioid use and decrease the risk of future dependency. (1.44 MB) FHIR implementation brings new opportunity for legacy modernization and technology-enriched healthcare services. (1.81 MB) Improving platelet transfusion workflow through a SMART on FHIR application (1.66 MB) Using HL7 FHIR to ascertain completion of medication reconciliation (1.84 MB) Using HL7 FHIR standard to make clinical trial data transmittable from hospital and clinic electronic system to sponsor data capture system (1.81 MB) Using HL7 FHIR in a near real-time reporting system enabling information to be more readily available to support point-of-care, organizational and system decision (2.04 MB) Leveraging HL7 FHIR interfaces, patient and surgeon-facing mobile apps were developed to securely collect and report on surgical detail and PROMs (2.64 MB) HL7 FHIR and CDS tool help identify candidate for genetic evaluation of hereditary cancer. (1.84 MB) Duke PillBox us HL7 FHIR with the goal of teaching patient to identify and organize a medication dosing schedule. (1.80 MB) EHR add-on app manages neonatal bilirubin saving clinician time and improving patient care. (1.82 MB) Rimidi and Emory see an opportunity to leverage HL7 FHIR APIs to streamline the deep brain stimulation patient journey. (1.80 MB) Developing an app compatible with multiple EHRs can allow provider more time with patient and facilitate the best care possible. (1.88 MB) Geisinger's FCA seek to enable family caregiver by leveraging data from a wider range of source using HL7 FHIR. (407 KB) (1.86 MB) Using HL7 FHIR, BIDMC seek to engage patient to manage their own chronic condition to reduce both hospital readmission rate and expensive high-intensity care. (2.00 MB) Geisinger aimed to pull data from a more standard, scalable range of source by converting MedTrues application programming interface (API) to HL7 FHIR services. eBooks (3.46 MB) How connected system bring healthcare payers, provider and life science organization together to improve care outcome White Papers and Reports (1.12 MB) Dive into an overview of a summit that convened the academic, standard and vendor community for an interactive dialog about creating and using openly accessible synthetic FHIR data for education, standard development, and testing. (1.74 MB) Explore the result of the survey to better understand the widespread adoption and depth of FHIR usage around the world. (663 KB) Data, digital tranformation and why you don't need to rip and replace legacy systems. Podcasts How is HL7 FHIR enabling better healthcare by convening the industry around technology standards? As the marketplace of healthcare application explodes, Dr. Nguyen discus how healthcare benefit from technology standard and why all healthcare stakeholder should get involved. Viet Nguyen, MD, Chief Standards Implementation officer for HL7, discus the FHIR Accelerator community, a collaborative initiative focused on finding innovative way to apply core FHIR standard across various domains. With HL7 FHIR seemingly on the lip of every health IT professional, Chuck Jaffe, MD, PhD and Diego Kaminker discus FHIR's history, it multiple accelerator and how the standard is looking to be the key to unlocking data exchange for healthcare throughout the world. Ed Hammond, PhD, Duke University Clinical & Translational Science Institute and Diego Kaminker, Deputy Chief Standards Implementation Officer, explore Healthcare Interoperability through conversation with expert from around the world. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Elections Nominations and Elections HL7 International hold annual election to fill position on the board of director and technical steering committee. Materials for nomination will be available on May 1. Information on election will be available when election open on July 1. During nomination and election periods, a table will identify position being elected, indicate who can submit a vote and provide a link to each election site. Please note that you must be signed onto the website with your username/password to see the link to the election sites. Elections Resources will be available during the annual election period, the 'No Documents Available' message appears when we're outside of the election period. The following table identifies the position being elected this year, indicates who can submit a vote, and provides a link to each election site. Please note that you must be signed onto the website with your username/password to see the link to the election sites. Position Eligibility Requirements Who Can Submit Votes Link to submit Votes HL7 Chair Elect Nominees for an Officer position (Chair Elect, Secretary, or Treasurer) must have been a current individual member or designated voting representative of a current Organizational member of HL7 International for at least the last two year and shall have prior leadership experience in HL7 such a committee or council chair, Work Group co-chair, TSC member, or member of the Board of Directors. All current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational and Affiliate members. HL7 Secretary Nominees for an Officer position (Chair Elect, Secretary, or Treasurer) must have been a current individual member or designated voting representative of a current Organizational member of HL7 International for at least the last two year and shall have prior leadership experience in HL7 such a committee or council chair, Work Group co-chair, TSC member, or member of the Board of Directors. All current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational and Affiliate members. HL7 Directors (2) Nominees for HL7 Director must be current individual member or designated voting representative of current Organizational member and shall have held leadership position at the Work Group, council, and/or committee level or have comparable experience in other organizations. Current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational members. HL7 Affiliate Director (2) Nominees for HL7 Affiliate Director must be member in good standing of their Affiliate and should have held leadership position at the HL7 International Work Group, council, and/or committee level. Affiliate chair International Council Co-Chairs (2) Nominees for International Council Co-chair must be a current member of an HL7 International Affiliate. Nominations for International Council Co-chair shall be accepted from Affiliate member designated voting representatives. TSC Affiliate Representative (1) Any representative of current Affiliate member. Though not required, should be either a current or past Work Group Co-Chair. Affiliate chair TSC Implementer Representative (1) Any active member of an HL7 Product Implementer Community who ha the qualification a defined by the appropriate HL7 Product Management Group. Current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational members. TSC Working Group Representatives (3) Must be a current or past Work Group Co-Chair Current Co-Chairs Work Group Co-Chairs Must be an individual member or organizational member of HL7 International (voting or non-voting rep) or a verified member of an HL7 Affiliate. Must be subscribed to the main listserv of the Work Group holding the election and an individual member or organizational member of HL7 International (voting or non-voting rep) or a verified member of an HL7 Affiliate. . The nomination and election schedule is a follows: May 1 - June 15 45-day nomination period June 16 - 30 Final slate prepared by the Leadership Development and Nomination CommitteeNominee profile loaded to the election site July 1 - 31 30-day election period August 7 - 21 2-week run-off election (if needed) September 25 Results announced at the Annual Business Meeting There shall be no solicitation for nomination or subsequent campaigning conducted on any HL7-managed electronic communications. Any such activity shall be cause for disqualification. As noted above, the Nomination Packet is available from each of the link above. This packet contains form that each Nominee must complete and submit before the June 15, 2024, deadline. To assist with the nomination period, below are position up for nomination/election and a statement indicating whether the individual currently holding the position is eligible for re-election: 2024 Board Positions up for Nomination/Election: Chair Elect - no one currently in this role. Secretary - position currently held by Virginia Lorenzi, who is not eligible for re-election to this position. HL7 Director - position currently held by Lenel James, who is not eligible to be re-elected to this position, and Ken Rubin, who is eligible for re-election. HL7 Affiliate Director - position currently held by Line Saele and Ron Parker, both of whom are eligible for re-election. 2024 TSC Positions up for Nomination/Election: Implementer Rep - position currently held by James Agnew, who is eligible for re-election International Affiliate Rep - position held by Christof Gessner, who is not eligible for re-election 3 Work Group Reps - position held by Brian Pech and Juliet Rubini, both of whom are eligible for re-election, and Gora Datta, who is not eligible for re-election International Council Positions up for Nomination/Election: Co-Chairs - position currently held by Fernando Campos and Line Saele, both of whom are eligible for re-election. Work Group Co-Chair Positions up for Nomination/Election: Elections Resources (26 KB) (160 KB) (28 KB) (28 KB) (29 KB) (28 KB) (128 KB) (104 KB) (98 KB) (71 KB) (82 KB) (44 KB) (29 KB) Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > My Subscriptions Manage My Listserv Subscriptions You must have an account to manage your ListServ Subscriptions OR Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Procedures Procedures and Templates For your convenience, listed below are procedure and template currently used by HL7. If you have further addition to this list, please contact . Please note: In 2021 a number of resource previously found on this page were migrated to confluence. If you cannot find a resource, please check the . Procedures (263 KB) ANSI Essential Requirements: Due process requirement for American National Standards contains the procedure that govern the American National Standards (ANS) process. HL7 Bylaws Special documentation designed to cover all the right and responsibility of committee co-chairs How to request a Confluence and/or Jira account for HL7 member and contributors. (289 KB) Templates Balloting This online form is used by WG CoChairs to officially request that a proposed standard or item be included in an upcoming ballot cycle. Form for providing information to HQ for requesting an out-of-cycle ballot (19 KB) Projects HL7s Project Approval Process document (based on Sponsor: Work Group, TSC, International Council, Board Committee, Affiliate) Publications To create a new Publication Request using the Confluence Form a opposed to the MS Word template, log into, then click on the elipses (...) next to the Create button. See for more information. This form is required to withdraw/close any balloted HL7 project/specification. The document outline the process and based on the Withdrawal Guidance Chart (linked within this form), it may need to be submitted along with a withdrawal PSS or alone if a PSS is not required. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Tools & Resources Tools & Resources Various tool and resource are available for people creating and implementing HL7 standards. The tool and resource that we are aware of are organized below by standard and/or function. If you have further addition to this list, please contact . For document and resource related to HL7 Standards, please check the . CDA Tools For Developers: An Open-Source tool suite, allows capturing medical expert requirement and support terminology and CDA templates, profiles, implementation guide to reflect and validate technical representations. It feature cloud-based federated Building Block Repositories (BBR), foster re-use of artefact and is the base for many projects, including large scale National Infrastructure Programmes in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, France and the European Commission. For Beginners: A navigation website for C-CDA 2.1 The C-CDA Scorecard promotes best practice in C-CDA implementation by assessing key aspect of the structured data found in individual documents. It is a tool designed to allow implementers to gain insight and information regarding industry best practice and overall usage of the guidance available for using C-CDA to generate high-quality information exchange documents. It also provides a rough quantitative assessment and highlight area of improvement which can be made today to move the interoperability needle forward. The best practice and quantitative scoring criterion have been developed by HL7 through the HL7-ONC Cooperative agreement to improve the implementation of health care standards. The C-CDA Scorecard doe not retain submitted C-CDA files. Submitted file are deleted from the server immediately after processing. However, the tool should not be used with C-CDA document that contain Protected Health Information (PHI) or Personally Identifiable Information (PII). For Beginners: The CDA Example Search Tool allows user to search the CDA example repository. The Lantana Validator evaluates CDA document against the CDA R2 and CDA_SDTC XML Schemas and against any type of implementation guide that ha a Schematron rule set. Lantana Consulting Group host a public copy of the Validator for open access to over 20 type of documents. Use of the public validator is appropriate for sample, non-PHI files. You can also host the Validator locally and run it using balloted or propriety rules. The validator is updated to include specific IGs upon request. The SITE C-CDA Validator validates conformance of C-CDA document to the standard in order to promote interoperability. You can use it to validate conformance of sample (non-PHI) C-CDA document to ONC 2014 and 2015 Certification Editions regulation and objectives, or the base HL7 C-CDA Implementation Guide. ONC C-CDA Scorecard The ONC One-Click Scorecard evaluates the quality of clinical summary document (C-CDAs) that may include PHI. It us secure Direct messaging to submit the C-CDA document to be evaluated and to return the results. If you dont have a Direct address to use the tool, you can request a counterparty trust set-up by sending email to sitteam@hhs.gov. For Developers: The Lantana Trifolia Workbench is a repository of all HL7 CDA template and implementation guide that have been authored using Trifolia Workbench and balloted through HL7. This tool allows user to browse templates, view their constraints, and generate Microsoft Word and HTML documentation from those templates. Additionally, HL7 member can create Implementation Guides, create templates, and control edit access to it templates. The tool also generates validation artifact (schematron). Editor Resources Publications schedule EHR-S FM Profile Tool This location contains information from the project including a How-To Guide. link to Manuals, Browse and search functionality, Creating/Editing a Functional Profile, FAQs and much more. This form is for presenter to request access to the HL7 overview presentation To create a new Confluence & Jira account, follow the instruction on the following page. Confluence page reflecting HL7-defined Media Type (aka MimeType) for the HL7 er7 message format used to represent V2 messages. V2 Tools HAPI (HL7 application programming interface) is an open-source, object-oriented HL7 2x parser for JAVA. This table of external coding system used in HL7 message ha been superseded by Terminology.HL7.org, see Use the Jira Specification Feedback project for entering and tracking suggestion and correction to the V2 messaging standard. Vocabulary Resources Every copy of the HL7 Vocabulary database incorporated into or distributed in conjunction with another database or software program must is subject to the HL7 End User License Agreement (EULA). This is a table of external coding system used in HL7 messages. HL7-defined vocabulary domain table have been developed for coded class attribute and are stored in the HL7 repository. A number of view have been extracted from these to produce the HL7 Vocabulary Domain Listings for the HL7 Reference Information Model (RIM). You can also view the Version 3 Vocabulary on the V3 Ballot Web Site using the following link:. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Work Groups Work Groups & Committees Work Groups, Committees and Councils A B C D E F G H I L M O P R S T U V About Work Groups With the support of our member and community, HL7 develops technical standard with the potential to transform health IT system everywhere! More than 40 HL7 work group are dedicated to specialized area and are directly responsible for standard content and development. Share your skill and expertise by joining a work group aligned with your area of interest. Get started by clicking on a work group name below to find detail on upcoming conference calls. Work Group Resources Balloting (46 KB) (528 KB) The Ballot Charts provide a quick reference to information related to each level of HL7 electronic balloting. This online form is used by WG CoChairs to officially request that a proposed standard or item be included in an upcoming ballot cycle. How to submit form for providing information to HQ for requesting an out-of-cycle ballot How to submit form to request Recirculation of unresolved Negative vote on a Normative ballot Co-Chair Handbook Resources Use this form if you want to dissolve a WG, merge two WGs, or change a WG's name or assigned steering division. (29 KB) All work group resource have been copied to the HL7 Essentials page on Confluence. As of 2022 all resource will be removed from this page and will only reside on the HL7 Essentials page on Confluence. Projects The objective of this document is to request to withdraw a protocol specification. For a Normative proposed American National Standard (ANS), ANSI will be notified that work on the protocol specification (typically an HL7 standard or implementation guide) is being discontinued by a Work Group. NOTE: This form is commonly referred to a the Standard Withdrawal Form and wa formerly titled 'Notice of Withdrawal of Proposed ANS Template'. MS Word template for the Project Scope statement, PSS-Lite (contained within the PSS template) and HL7s Project Approval Processes a well a the HL7 Affiliate Project Description Template to be used by HL7 Affiliates. Project Scope Statement Template on Confluence (PILOT) The HL7 PSS Template ha been created on Confluence. For Work Groups that would like to participate in piloting the PSS and project approval process within Confluence, log into ; click the "Create ..." button, then 'Show More' to copy the default PSS template to your Work Group's Space within Confluence. Publishing Resources Use this form to request publication of your balloted document (Normative, DSTU or Informative) after ballot reconciliation is complete Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > COVID Policy COVID Policy HL7 International COVID Protection Policy Approved by the HL7 Executive Committee on December 13, 2021 After review of the most current evidence provided by public health and safety experts, the HL7 International Board of Directors ha determined that HL7 event can be the most robust, productive, interactive and safest conference possible by requiring full COVID-19 vaccination (as defined by your country/domicile) for entry. Right of Entry HL7 will define specific Right of Entry Protocols that reflect these principle and that comply with prevailing public health guideline and local public health regulation in the event location. As new development arise over the coming months, HL7 will continue to refine adopt the most recent requirement for the Right of Entry Protocol a required. At this time, there are no protocol required. Watch this space for update and additional detail regarding specific events. Upcoming In-Person Events The following are the upcoming event which offer an in-person attendance option. Please be sure to follow the specific covid guideline for each event. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International FHIR Community Events Do you have a FHIR Community Event planned? Please contact the to be added to the calendar. For a complete schedule of upcoming HL7 events, training and certifications, please visit Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Working Group Meetings Working Group Meetings Sponsorship Opportunities Sponsoring any of these event will result in HL7 International promoting your firm to HL7 member worldwide, meeting attendees, more than 55 international HL7 affiliate and thousand of industry leader who receive HL7 mailings. View . Upcoming WGMs RSS May 18, 2024 to May 24, 2024 - Renaissance Dallas Hotel, Dallas, TX Add to Calendar May 2024 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon May 18, 2024 12:00 AM May 24, 2024 12:00 AM May 2024 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon Renaissance Dallas Hotel, Dallas, TX Renaissance Dallas Hotel, Dallas, TX 38th Annual Plenary, WGM+ and HL7 FHIR Connectathon Sep 21, 2024 to Sep 27, 2024 - The Omni Atlanta, GA Add to Calendar 38th Annual Plenary, WGM+ and HL7 FHIR Connectathon Sep 21, 2024 12:00 AM Sep 27, 2024 12:00 AM 38th Annual Plenary, WGM+ and HL7 FHIR Connectathon The Omni Atlanta, GA The Omni Atlanta, GA January 2025 Working Group Meeting Jan 27, 2025 to Jan 30, 2025 - Virtual Event - Eastern Time Add to Calendar January 2025 Working Group Meeting Jan 27, 2025 12:00 AM Jan 30, 2025 12:00 AM January 2025 Working Group Meeting Virtual Event - Eastern Time Virtual Event - Eastern Time May 2025 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon May 10, 2025 to May 16, 2025 - Madrid, Spain Add to Calendar May 2025 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon May 10, 2025 12:00 AM May 16, 2025 12:00 AM May 2025 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon Madrid, Spain Madrid, Spain Past WGMs Jan 29, 2024 to Feb 2, 2024 - Virtual Event Sep 9, 2023 to Sep 15, 2023 - Sheraton Phoenix Downtown, Phoenix, AZ May 8, 2023 to May 12, 2023 - Hilton Riverside, New Orleans, Louisiana Jan 16, 2023 to Jan 20, 2023 - Hilton Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa, Henderson, NV Sep 17, 2022 to Sep 23, 2022 - Renaissance Harbor Place Hotel, Baltimore, MD May 9, 2022 to May 13, 2022 - Virtual Event Jan 18, 2022 to Jan 21, 2022 - Virtual Event Sep 20, 2021 to Sep 24, 2021 - Virtual Event May 24, 2021 to May 28, 2021 - Virtual Event What is a Working Group Meeting? HL7 International working group meeting (WGMs) are held three time per year at varying location and serve two important purposes: To provide HL7 International work group a chance to meet face to face to work on the standard a well a the opportunity to network with industry leader from around the world. To provide an invaluable educational resource for the healthcare IT community. Standards Development More than 40 HL7 work group are dedicated to specialized area of interest such a Mobile Health and Electronic Health Records. These work group are directly responsible for the content of the standard and spend much of their time at the WGMs hard at work on standard development. Attending a WGM can be a great way to keep up-to-date on what is happening in a particular area, and everyone attending an HL7 WGM is invited to attend any of the work groups. Educational Sessions HL7 International is pleased to introduce free education session included with registration at the May 2024 Working Group Meeting (WGM). Previously, tutorial at the WGMs were an additional cost to daily registration fees. At the May WGM, free education session will be offered every quarter. No additional registration is required and all WGM registrant are welcome to participate. Topics will include HL7 FHIR and general interoperability and the following category are expected: Informational Sessions Designed to support new member involvement and help existing member become more effective in their participation in the HL7 standard development process. Examples are First Timer's Orientation, Introduction to the HL7 Organization and Processes, and the HL7 Certification and Credentialing Programs. Special Topics Includes presentation that may involve multiple standard product families. Topics such a Overview of Interoperability or How to Exchange Data Between Electronic Health Records would fall into this category. HL7 FHIR Focused on HL7's Fast Health Interoperability Resources (FHIR) standard. This includes interactive presentation intended to bring decision maker and implementers up to speed and ready to use the standard in their own environment. Interested in attending but short on funds? .Scholarships are awarded annually to partially cover travel, accommodation and registration expense enabling at least one individual to participate in an HL7 WGM. Funding will be sufficient to enable attendance but will require a meaningful and achievable contribution by the award recipient. Awards are anticipated to be $1500-2500 USD per WGM, depending on meeting and award recipient location. Information about the next application period will be posted soon.. Working Group Meeting Documents 2023 May Working Group Meeting (WGM+) (32.82 MB) (15.88 MB) (15.73 MB) (2.22 MB) (12.20 MB) (6.31 MB) (17.27 MB) (15.22 MB) (12.87 MB) 2023 September 37th Annual Plenary and Working Group Meeting (2.17 MB) (36.57 MB) (17.62 MB) First-Time Attendee Resources (355 KB) (156 KB) (2.21 MB) View training and certification information including policies, training materials, courses, upcoming training events, and onsite training options. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Conference Call Center Options My Work Groups You are not following any Work Groups YOUR UPCOMING CALLS Please to see the upcoming conference call associated with your account. January February March April May June July August September October November December Overview of all conference call Arden Syntax Argonaut Project Biomedical Research and Regulation BioPharma Board of Directors CARIN CDA Management Group Clinical Decision Support Clinical Genomics Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Clinical Interoperability Council Clinical Quality Information CodeX Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) Conformance Contract Work Cross-Group Projects Da Vinci Project Devices Education Electronic Health Records Emergency Care FAST FHIR Community Process Coordination Committee FHIR Infrastructure FHIR Management Group FHIR-OMOP Financial Management Governance and Structure Task Force Gravity Health Level Seven Health Professionals Helios HIMSS HL7 Europe HL7 Nursing Group Human and Social Services Imaging Integration Implementable Technology Specifications Infrastructure and Messaging International Council Internationalization Committee Involvement Task Force Leadership Development and Nomination Committee Learning Health Systems Marketing and Communications Task Force Mobile Health Orders and Observations Partners In Interoperability Value-Based Care Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Empowerment Payer/Provider Information Exchange Work Group Pharmacy Policy Advisory Committee Products and Services Task Force Public Health Publishing - Electronic Services and Tooling Revenue Task Force Security Services Oriented Architecture Structured Documents Technical Steering Committee Terminology Authority Terminology Infrastructure Work Group Terminology Services Management Group (TSMG) Transition Oversight Team US Realm Steering Committee V2 Management Group Vulcan Women of HL7 Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat CALENDAR SUBSCRIPTION Subscribe to your conference call in your favorite calendar program, and you'll automatically receive update when new call are scheduled or existing call are changed. To use this feature, you must be subscribed to at least one listserv belonging to each work group that you wish to see on your calendar. To subscribe or unsubscribe from a workgroup's listservs, visit the page. Calendar subcriptions work with Microsoft Outlook, Google Calendar, Apple iCal, and other program that support the webcal/ical formats. In most cases, subscribing to your calendar update is a easy a clicking the Add to Calendar link. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HIMSS HL7 International & HIMSS24 | Interoperability Showcase Booth 3760-121 | West Hall March 11-15, 2024 | Orlando, Florida We are especially excited about our HL7 booth, which for the first time ever, will be located in the Interoperability Showcase (#3760-121) in the West Exhibit Hall! In addition, there will be several session presented by our subject matter experts. A full schedule will be available soon. HL7 member receive a discount for HIMSS24 HL7 is a collaborator for HIMSS24 and our member receive a discount on registration! To receive the discount follow these steps: Go to the HIMSS24. Once you're signed in, select theCollaboratortab on the left-hand side. Select your preferred HIMSS24 pas and enter our organization name a the referring Collaborator Organization to receive the HIMSS member rate. Enter the code: H24HL7 Social Media: Follow all the action on X (formerly Twitter) @HL7, #davinciproject and #HIMSS24. about what's happening at HL7's HIMSS booth HIMSS Resources Related Documents: (382 KB) (13.53 MB) (111 KB) PDFs of HL7 Booth Presentations: Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Sponsors Sponsors Sponsorship Opportunities Position your brand with the HL7 community! Sponsorship result in HL7 International promoting your organization to HL7 member worldwide, meeting attendees, more than 30 international HL7 affiliates, and thousand of industry leader who receive HL7 communications. View . Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > Training and Education Health IT Membership Resources HL7 Virtual Student Academy Free student resource on demand! Learn about HL7 standard with Education On Demand Recorded video allow you to learn at your own pace HL7 Training and Education Health Level Seven (HL7) is an standard development organization in the healthcare sector. HL7's mission is to provide standard that empower global health data interoperability. Our vision is a world in which everyone can securely access and use the right health data when and where they need it. This mission and vision drive our education and training program to provide knowledge and support to the global healthcare industry through successful implementation of HL7 standard including Version 2 (V2), Version 3 (V3), Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) and Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR). For a list of our current offerings, see the or download the Education Catalog using the form on the right. Straight From the Source HL7 training program give you an opportunity to learn straight from the source. Our instructor are HL7 subject matter expert and professional who develop our standard and work with implementers. Our training program are created by author of HL7 standards, editor and leader in the HL7 community holding position such a co-chairs and board members. They are on the cutting edge of health infomatics through standards. Individual Training HL7 offer expert-led training for individual around the world in a variety of format including: Live Online Classes & Webinars Asynchronous Courses Education On Demand Face-to-Face Events Learn more about . Corporate Training HL7 can customize training for corporations, government and academia. Training can be held onsite at your facility or online in real time with our skilled instructor and practicing professionals. Learn more about . HL7 Certification HL7 also offer certification testing to help professional achieve industry-recognized level of proficiency and expertise. Advance your career and stand out from the crowd by adding "HL7-Certified" to your credentials. Learn more about the . Education on Demand HL7's Education On Demand is an online source for professional development and certification preparation resources. Recorded version of online classes, webinars and presentations, a well a study guide and practice exam are accessible at any time. Go to . Virtual Student Academy HL7 ha a vast array of educational tools, training course and resource that provide the knowledge student need to address healthcare IT challenge and improve the security and accessibility of patient health data around the world. Go to . Upcoming Training Events RSS May 7, 2024 to May 8, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) May 7, 2024 12:00 AM May 8, 2024 12:00 AM Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) Online Class Online Class May 15, 2024 - Free Webinar Add to Calendar Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) May 15, 2024 12:00 AM May 15, 2024 12:00 AM Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) Free Webinar Free Webinar May 18, 2024 to May 24, 2024 - Renaissance Dallas Hotel, Dallas, TX Add to Calendar May 2024 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon May 18, 2024 12:00 AM May 24, 2024 12:00 AM May 2024 Working Group Meeting and HL7 FHIR Connectathon Renaissance Dallas Hotel, Dallas, TX Renaissance Dallas Hotel, Dallas, TX May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Education Catalog Download the Education Catalog Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Individual Training Individual Training HL7 offer multiple training option accessible across the globe to suit everyone's needs. Live Online Classes & Webinars Live online class and webinars offer an opportunity to engage with expert instructor and participate in active discussions. These instructor are practicing professionals, often author of the standard and can address a wide range of topic focused on interoperability across the healthcare continuum. Online class are over an hour in length and typically run for more than one day. Webinars are under an hour and are scheduled for one-day only. Classes and webinars are held throughout the year and registration includes access to the recording for six months. See our current offering on the right. Asynchronous (no live sessions) Courses Asynchronous course are delivered online and led by an instructor. While these course are scheduled during a specific timeframe, live session are not included which make them accessible from any time zone around the world. A key benefit of these course is that a tutor is assigned to each participant, reinforcing the opportunity for a successful learning experience. Current asynchronous course include: Education On Demand HL7's Education On Demand is an online source for professional development and certification preparation resources. Recorded version of online classes, webinars and presentations, a well a study guide and practice exam are accessible at any time. Users can search by standard, topic or instructor. HL7 member can enjoy free access to past a well a discount on product for purchase. . Face-to-Face Events HL7 offer in-person training through a full schedule of tutorial and experiential learning opportunity at , and other . Virtual Student Academy HL7 ha a vast array of educational tools, training course and resource that provide the knowledge student need to address healthcare IT challenge and improve the security and accessibility of patient health data around the world. Go to. Student Discounts Available HL7 offer for most of our training options. Students are required to submit proof of active enrollment (taking class during the duration of the course) in a Bachelor's, Master's or Doctoral program at an accredited university or college (in English). Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college a during the duration of the course. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the duration of the course. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Upcoming Training Events RSS May 7, 2024 to May 8, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) May 7, 2024 12:00 AM May 8, 2024 12:00 AM Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) Online Class Online Class May 15, 2024 - Free Webinar Add to Calendar Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) May 15, 2024 12:00 AM May 15, 2024 12:00 AM Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) Free Webinar Free Webinar May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Corporate Training Corporate Training HL7 offer customized group training for corporate, government and academiaanywhere in the world, in flexible format that meet your organization's requirements. HL7 expert have delivered training in many of the top healthcare organizations. Corporate Training Formats held at your facility for up to 40 team member and can be customized to fit your need while ensuring confidentiality by keeping topic and focus internal an affordable alternative to in-person training that provides customized training through live webinars Why is HL7 training better? HL7 is the author and authority on healthcare interoperability standard including: Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) and the C-CDA Implementation Guide HL7 Version 2 (V2) We provide qualified, knowledgeable faculty and customized material developed by our standard team. Training is tailored to focus on specific area based on your requirements. Your team member will learn how to implement HL7 standard straight from the source through official, HL7-produced training that is convenient and affordable. Choose a standard package or customize your program by choosing from content offered by HL7 to best suit your organization's needs. Contact u using the form below to discus the best training option for your organization. Request Corporate Training Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Education Calendar Education Calendar Learn more about our options. Don't see a training event that fit your schedule? Access training immediately at . HL7 Online Classes & Webinars RSS May 7, 2024 to May 8, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) May 7, 2024 12:00 AM May 8, 2024 12:00 AM Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) Online Class Online Class May 15, 2024 - Free Webinar Add to Calendar Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) May 15, 2024 12:00 AM May 15, 2024 12:00 AM Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) Free Webinar Free Webinar Jun 18, 2024 to Jun 20, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar SMART on FHIR & CDS Hooks Jun 18, 2024 12:00 AM Jun 20, 2024 12:00 AM SMART on FHIR & CDS Hooks Online Class Online Class Sep 9, 2024 to Sep 11, 2024 - HL7 Education Partner Class Add to Calendar Hands-On HL7 FHIR Data Modeling & Profiling Sep 9, 2024 12:00 AM Sep 11, 2024 12:00 AM Hands-On HL7 FHIR Data Modeling & Profiling HL7 Education Partner Class HL7 Education Partner Class Learn out more about our . Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Learn out more about or . Download the Education Catalog Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Certified Educator Program HL7 Certified Educator Program About The HL7 Certified Educator Program (CEP) seek to recognize educator who demonstrate excellence a both HL7 instructor and HL7 subject matter experts. The CEP evaluates applicants, train educator and support their need to maintain their expertise. Some certified educator may serve a faculty for HL7 International or may find additional teaching opportunities. Why Become an HL7 Certified Educator? Align yourself with the mission and vision of HL7 International Use the HL7 Certified Education Provider credential after your name (HL7CE) and display the digital badge Have your qualification verified by world-renowned subject matter expert every three (3) year Get access to mentoring by a focused specialist through HL7 International Demonstrate currency of knowledge through professional development Continually improve your product and process through partnership with HL7 International Certification Criteria An educator can earn the HL7 Certified Educator (HL7CE) designation by meeting the criterion below. An HL7 Certified Educator: Must be a current in good standing Adheres to Holds the current related required , obtained by passing the associated exam(s) Demonstrates strong verbal communication skill via prior training, teaching or presentation experience Continues professional education and development Uses HL7 Certified Education material including templates, marketing collateral and material properly Has completed the HL7 Train the Trainer Course How to Apply HL7 International will begin accepting application for certified educator in January 2022. Supporting documentation will need to be submitted with an application. These document will include: a professional resume a copy of the highest academic degree obtained statement of educational philosophy and teaching experience of HL7 standards. prior course evaluation combined into one document copy of any additional relevant certificate combined into one document three (3) professional reference with name, email and phone number The approval will be valid for three years. At the end of three years, the trainer is expected to resubmit the application. Certifications will be tracked through a certification directory hosted on HL7.org. CEP Fees Fee payment will be requested after initial application is submitted. Initial Application (renew every 3 years): $400 USD Annual Fee (years 2 & 3): $200 USD Low income country* resident will receive a 40% discount. MIddle income country* resident will receive a 20% discount. *Low and Middle Income Countries as. Accepting application starting January 2022 Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HL7 Education Partners Join the HL7 Education Partner Program Partner with HL7 to deliver FHIR training that meet the need of professional across the healthcare continuum. Does your company have expertise in HL7 standard and is training a service you offer? Consider sharing your standard knowledge by collaborating to educate the healthcare community on HL7 standards! Increase your credibility by partnering with the most trusted source for HL7 standard educationHL7 International. HL7 establishes partnership with organization that share our passion for creating and delivering HL7 FHIR education. Through a global framework and criterion for achieving partner status, HL7 and it partner will extend the availability of high-quality FHIR training worldwide. Education Partner Categories Essential For commercial organization who create, maintain, administer and deliver their own educational content about HL7 Standards. They have their place at HL7 Partners' web page and Education calendar. The proposed content is vetted by the HL7 Education Advisory Council. The Essential Partner must have a minimum of 3 Certified Educators (3 HL7 CE) in staff. Plus For commercial organization who create and deliver their own educational content on HL7 Standards a HL7 courses. They have their place at HL7 Partners' web page and they are part of the official HL7 Education calendar. The proposed content is vetted by the HL7 Education Advisory Council. The Plus Partner must have a minimum of 2 Certified Educators (2 HL7 CE) in staff. Elite For commercial organization who deliver educational content created by HL7. They have their place at HL7 Partners' web page and calendar. The proposed content is copyrighted by HL7 Education Advisory Council. The Plus Partner must have a minimum of 4 Certified Educators (4 HL7 CE) in staff. Contributor For commercial or non-profit organization creating and delivering educational content/courses. These course are copyrighted and administered by HL7. The Contributor Partner must have a minimum of 2 Certified Educators (2 HL7 CE) in staff. Affiliate Non-profit organization translating / administering / delivering HL7 copyrighted educational content and materials. Affiliates and Regional Partners also represent HL7 International in their assigned territories. Advocate Commercial or non-profit organization advertising HL7 educational content and channeling participant to HL7 offering Education Partner Events No scheduled events. Please check back later. Education Partner Levels at a Glance HL7 CEon Staff CopyrightOwnership Content Creation& Maintenance CourseAdmin CoursePromotion CourseDelivery Material ReviewRequired ParticipantSurvey CourseCertificates Elite Commercial organization delivering content created by HL7 4 HL7 HL7 Partner HL7 PartnerCalendar Partner no Partner HL7 Plus Commercial organization delivering their own copyrighted educational content, advertised a HL7 course 2 Partner Partner HL7 HL7 Partner Yes HL7 HL7 Essential Commercial organization delivering their own copyrighted educational content about HL7 Standards, administered by the partner 3 Partner Partner Partner HL7 PartnerCalendar Partner Yes Partner Partner AffiliateAffiliate/Regional partner are non-profit organization translating/administering/delivering HL7 copyrighted educational content/materials 2 HL7 HL7 Partner Partner Partner no Partner HL7 Contributor Commercial or non-profit organization creating and delivering educational content/courses about HL7 Standards. The course are copyrighted and administered by HL7 2 HL7 Partner HL7 HL7 Partner Yes Partner HL7 Advocate Commercial or non-profit organization advertising HL7 content and channeling participant to HL7 educational offering 0 HL7 HL7 HL7 HL7 HL7 no HL7 HL7 Table is for illustrative purpose only. Please see agreement for specific details. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 Fundamentals HL7 Fundamentals Course 2024 Courses February 8 May 2, 2024 May 23 August 15, 2024 (Registration close May 17) September 5 November 28, 2024 Learn by Doing The HL7 Fundamentals Course is fundamentally different. This introductory, 12-week workshop us a set of guided exercise to learn by practice and example. This asynchronous course is ideal for those new to HL7 and it family of standard including Version 2 (V2), Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) and Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR). See the . Who should attend: Newcomers to HL7 Those who wish to gain an overall technical experience of HL7 standard At the end of the course, participant will be able to: Confront a project involving interoperability among disjointed healthcare information system Read the most widely used HL7 standard Understand the need for controlled vocabularies, master file and entity registry Read and write V2.X message Read and write CDA R2 document Identify FHIR specification and resource Decide when to use each artifact (messages, documents) What to Expect This is an asynchronous (no live lectures), instructor-led online course that allows you to work at your own pace. Learning take place through discussion with the instructor, tutor and peers. Assessments are in the form of weekly assignments, quizzes, exam and projects. Plan on spending 5 to 7 hour per week. There are no live lecture to attend. You can expect: An instructor who will provide reading material and assignment HL7-certified tutor helping you step-by-step Discussion forum that promote engagement and interaction Integration activity stewarded by the teaching team Self evaluation quiz to test comprehension How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price $525 HL7 Members $790 Non-members $420 Middle Income Countries* $315 Lower Income Countries* $420 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries a . **Students are required to submit proof of active enrollment (taking class during the duration of the course) in a Bachelor's, Master's or Doctoralprogram at an accredited university or college (in English). Certificate program do not qualify for the discount. Images cannot be submitted. Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college and taking class during the duration of the course. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the duration of the course. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register for the Exam In order to register now and pay later, please choose the pay by check option at check out. To pay later with a credit card, log into HL7, choose "My Account" on the right side, scroll all the way to the bottom and paying the invoice. You can also pay by check or wire transfer. Payment should be received by HL7 before the start of the course. Additional Course Information (236 KB) Upcoming Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 FHIR Fundamentals HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Course 2024 Courses March 28 April 25, 2024 July 11 August 8, 2024 (Registration close July 5) October 24 November 21, 2024 Learn by Doing The HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Course is a four-week online course that provides an in-depth overview of HL7's hottest standard - . Who should attend: Software developer and implementers Those responsible for implementing FHIR interfaces, architect and project lead that make decision about where FHIR might be used At the end of the course, participant will be able to: Read the FHIR specification and know how it is organized Understand the concept of resource and the different interoperability paradigm supported by FHIR Comprehend the use of controlled vocabularies, master files, and entity registry in FHIR Read and write FHIR resource Understand FHIR profile and constraint and the use of extension Understand the use of REST in FHIR, FHIR documents, transaction and messaging See the . What to Expect This is an asynchronous, instructor-led online course that allows you to work at your own pace. Learning take place through discussion with the instructor, tutor and peers. Assessments are in the form of weekly assignments, quizzes, exam and projects. Plan on spending 5 to 7 hour per week. There are no live lecture to attend. You can expect: Instructors who are HL7 FHIR expert and working professional HL7-certified tutor providing evaluation and feedback on each module Discussion forum that promote engagement and interaction Practical exercise within each module to apply what you have learned Prerequisites No previous experience with FHIR or other HL7 standard is needed Familiarity with XML or JSON and some background in software development is recommended (exercises will be easier if participant have an XML or JSON editing environment) How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price $650 HL7 Members $975 Non-Members $525 Middle Income Country* $400 Lower Income Country $525 Students** *Low and Middle Income Country a **Students enrolled and taking class during the duration of the coursein an accredited Bachelor, Master or Doctoral program qualify for this discount. Certificate program do not qualify. Students are required to submit proof of enrollment in a Bachelor's or Master's program at an accredited university or college (in English). Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled and taking class in the university or college during the duration of the course. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the duration of the course. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register Now! Additional Course Information (70 KB) Upcoming Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 FHIR Intermediate HL7 FHIR Intermediate Course 2024 Courses February 15 March 28, 2024 May 30 July 11, 2024 (Registration close May 24) September 12 October 24, 2024 Learn by Doing The HL7FHIRIntermediate Course is a six-week online course that provides opportunity to apply newly gained knowledge with a set of guided exercise for learning by developing and reviewing working software. Learn more about This course is recommended for DEVELOPERS who: Are already familiar with FHIR and want to delve deep into the knowledge required to use it for real world project Have with experience programming with C#, Java and/or JavaScript Wish to gain an overall technical experience of SMART on FHIR and CDS Hooks At the end of the course, participant will be able to: Understand the scope and content of the Argonaut and IPS IG Comprehend the general characteristic of a FHIR client Understand and modify a FHIR client in C#, Java or JavaScript Understand the mechanism for FHIR server used a API facade Use SMART on FHIR to connect to a EHR Use CDS Hooks to provide clinical decision support for an application or system See the . What to Expect This is an asynchronous, instructor-led online course that allows you to work at your own pace. Learning take place through discussion with the instructor, tutor and peers. Assessments are in the form of weekly assignments, quizzes, exam and projects. Plan on spending five to seven hour per week. There are no live lecture to attend. You can expect: Instructors who are HL7 FHIR expert and working professional HL7-certified tutor providing evaluation and feedback on each module Discussion forum that promote engagement and interaction Practical exercise within each module to apply what you have learned Prerequisites Prior experience in HL7 FHIR is required (completing the HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Course before taking this course is recommended) Familiarity with C#, Java and/or JavaScript is strongly recommended Recommended for developer only How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price $650 HL7 Members $975 Non-members $525 Middle Income Countries* $400 Lower Income Countries* $525 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries a . **Students currently enrolled and taking class from accredited Bachelor, Master or Doctoral program are eligible for this discount. Certificate program do not qualify. Students are required to submit proof of active enrollment in an accredited university or college (in English). Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college a of the date of registration for the certification exam. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the date of registration for the certification exam. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register Now! Additional Course Information Upcoming Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 FHIR Exam Prep HL7 FHIR Exam Prep The Comprehensive HL7 FHIR Proficiency Exam Preparation Course 2024 Courses February 29 - March 28, 2024 June 13 - July 11, 2024 (Registration close June 7) Overview The Comprehensive HL7 FHIR Proficiency Exam Preparation Courseis a four-week, self-paced course that will prepare participant for taking the and teach FHIR concept in detail. Who should attend: Those wanting to take the HL7 FHIR Proficiency Exam and wanting to learn FHIR conceptually Upon completion of the course, participant will: Obtain a solid knowledge of the concept required to pas the HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Understand the test format and type of question found in the exam Apply appropriate test taking strategy to deduce the correct answer in the exam Practice thoroughly for exam by taking 150+ objective quiz question See the . What to Expect This is an instructor-led and tutor-assisted online course. Each module will consist of recorded lectures, reading material and quizzes. Over the four weeks, there will be multiple webinar session totaling 15 hour of recorded lecture and one hour of Q&A for each week's topics. Students will take 100+ quiz question across five module to test knowledge gained during course.Students will also attempt a 50-question final exam to simulate the HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam. Prerequisites Though not mandatory, it is good to have basic FHIR knowledge Disclaimers All activity are quizzes/objective assessment. Course doe not have any hand on/subjective exercises. Course is not a substitute of any existing HL7 FHIR courses. Course doe not guarantee passing of proficiency exam. How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price Note: Course price includes the four-week course and doe not include the fee to take the actual HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam. $450 HL7 Members $675 Non-members $350 Middle Income Countries* $275 Lower Income Countries* $350 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries a **Students are required to submit proof of enrollment in an accredited university or college (in English). Only student enrolled in an accredites Bachelor, Master oror Doctoral program are eligible for this discount. Certificate student are not eligible. Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college a of the date of registration for the certification exam. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the date of registration for the certification exam. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register Now! Additional Course Information Upcoming Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > Certification Are you on thePath to Certification? Find out where you need to start on your journey to get certified Learn about HL7 standard with Education On Demand Recorded video allow you to learn at your own pace HL7 Certification HL7 offer certification and proficiency testing to ass the knowledge and proficiency of it most frequently used health information technology (HIT) standards. Download your free path to certification guide by filling out the form on the right side. Certification & Proficiency Exams Offered Why get HL7 certified? HL7 certification help professional achieve industry-recognized level of proficiency and expertise. Increase your career opportunity and stand out from the crowd by becoming HL7 certified. Why hire HL7-certified professionals? The healthcare information technology industry is complex. As an employer, you need a quality team dedicated to solving today's interoperability challenges. Hiring an HL7-certified professional give you confidence in the individual's specialized knowledge and skills. These expert demonstrate a commitment to excellence required to address the rapidly evolving field of healthcare. View . Exam Options HL7 certification exam are offered through Webassessor, a product of Kryterion, a professional testing service. There are two option to take a certification exam: Online proctored testing from your own computer Onsite at Kryterion testing center located around the world Online proctored testing allows the exam to be taken with internet access and an external webcam that meet Kryterion webcam specifications. Please refer to the for requirements. Be sure to before the exam. Onsite testing is available at over around the globe. Please refer to the for details. How to Register To register for an HL7 certification exam, you will need an HL7.org account. If you do not have one, . Once you have an account and are logged in, select your certificate exam from above, click register and pay for the exam. Within 5 business days, you will receive an email with your user ID, password, voucher code and instruction to schedule your exam in Webassessor. The voucher code is good for 360 days. If you do not receive an email within 5 days, please contact . NOTE: Please read the regarding rescheduling exam dates. There are fee assessed for change made le than 5 day before scheduled dates. Exam Fees The cost to sit for a certification exam is a follows: $210 HL7 Members $315 Non-Members $170 Resident of Middle Income Country* $125 Resident of Low Income Country* $170 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries as. **Students are required to submit proof of enrollment in a Bachelor's, Master's or Doctoral program at an accredited university or college (in English). Certificate program do not qualify for the discount. Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled and taking class in the university or college a of the date of registration for the certification exam A letter from the Dean or Department Chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the date of registration for the certification exam. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Eligible VA veteran can apply for reimbursement of certification and proficiency exam fees. More information . Cancellation Policy To be eligible for a refund minus the $50 cancellation fee, you must cancel 120 hour before the examination date. However, if you reschedule or cancel within 120 hours, you will be assessed a $95 fee. No show will not be eligible for any refund. Upcoming Training Events RSS May 7, 2024 to May 8, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) May 7, 2024 12:00 AM May 8, 2024 12:00 AM Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) Online Class Online Class May 15, 2024 - Free Webinar Add to Calendar Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) May 15, 2024 12:00 AM May 15, 2024 12:00 AM Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) Free Webinar Free Webinar May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HL7 CDA CDA Certification The Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is HL7's primary standard for representing structured clinical documentation on patient for the purpose of health information exchange. CDA is most commonly known for it application in information exchange for the continuum of care via the and for the reporting of electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs) via it . Both of these CDA implementation guide are required to be used for the CMS Promoting Interoperability Programs. Why get CDA certified? HL7 CDA certification will help you achieve industry-recognized level of proficiency and expertise. Increase your career opportunity and stand out from the crowd by becoming HL7-certified. The CDA certification exam test proficiency in the overall attribute of the CDA document. To pass, you must demonstrate your knowledge of the CDA specification and implementation guide and be able to apply this knowledge in real-world implementation efforts. Prerequisites and Fees The CDA Specialist certification exam doe not require any prerequisites. However, we strongly recommend a combination of courses, study resource and practical experience to prepare yourself for the exam. . All HL7 certification and proficiency exam are approved by the VA for reimbursement for eligible veterans. More information is available. Recommended Courses This online introductory 12-week course is offered three time per year. It address HL7 standard for creating and exchanging healthcare information, including Version 2 (V2), CDA and Fast Healthcare Interoperabiilty Resources (FHIR) This two-part webinar present an overview of the CDA, outline the business case for CDA, it primary design principle and capability and it family of implementation guides. This two-part webinar dive deeper intoCDA, Release 2, it derivation from the RIM and issue relevant to implementing CDA 2.0 solutions. This course contains two 90-minute session to review the CDA standard in preparation for the CDA Specialst Certificate Exam. Experience Opportunities Join the Structured Documents Work Group and help develop the CDA standard and implementation guides. Attend one of our working group meeting held three time per year at various location across the U.S. and the globe. Cancellation Policy To be eligible for a refund minus the $50 cancellation fee, you must cancel 120 hour before the examination date. However, if you reschedule or cancel within 120 hours, you will be assessed a $95 fee. No show will not be eligible for any refund. Register for the Exam Show the World You Have Standards Pass the HL7 CDA certification exam and earn your CDA Specialist badge for displaying on LinkedIn or other online media. Once your receive your certificate of completion, download your badge at Study Resources Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HL7 FHIR Proficiency HL7 FHIR Certification Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) is HL7's next-generation standard framework which build on, and combines, the best feature of the HL7 Version 2 (V2), Version 3 (V3) and Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) product lines, while leveraging the latest web standard and focusing on the ability to implement. FHIR is suitable for use in a wide variety of contexts, such a mobile phone apps, cloud communications, electronic health record (EHR)-based data sharing, server communication in large institutional healthcare provider setting and more. Why become FHIR proficient? Earning the HL7 FHIR (R4) Proficiency Certificate will help you achieve industry-recognized level of expertise in the newest and hottest HL7 standard. Increase your career opportunity and stand out from the crowd by becoming FHIR proficient. The exam will cover the following: FHIR principles; fundamental FHIR resource concepts; exchange mechanisms; conformance and implementation guidance; how to incorporate terminology; how to build safe and secure FHIR solutions; the FHIR maintenance process; and how to use and work with FHIR licensing and intellectual property (IP). Prerequisites and Fees The HL7 FHIR proficiency exam doe not require any prerequisites. However, we strongly recommend a combination of courses, study resource and practical experience to prepare for the exam. . All HL7 certification and proficiency exam are approved by the VA for reimbursement for eligible veterans. More information is available. Recommended Courses A four-week, self-paced course specifically designed to prepare those with a fair understand of FHIR concept for taking the HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam. This introductory, four-week online workshop is offered three time per year. It provides an in-depth overview of HL7 FHIR with hands-on experience and tutor assigned to each student. No prior experience required. A two-part class give an introduction to HL7 FHIR, what it can do and how an organization might best take advantage of it. This two-part class will assist student in their preparation for the HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam. Experience Opportunities Volunteer for an HL7 work group and participate by developing a standard specification. Attend one of our working group meeting held three time per year at various location across the U.S. and the globe. Participate in these two-day event of hands-on FHIR development and testing held in conjunction with . Attend HL7 FHIR DevDays, a unique, in-depth educational experience with FHIR expert including networking and social events. Cancellation Policy To be eligible for a refund minus the $50 cancellation fee, you must cancel 120 hour before the examination date. However, if you reschedule or cancel within 120 hours, you will be assessed a $95 fee. No show will not be eligible for any refund. Register for the Exam Show the World You Have Standards Pass the HL7 FHIR Proficiency exam and earn your HL7 FHIR Proficient badge for displaying on LinkedIn or other online media. Once your receive your certificate of completion, download your badge at Study Resources Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HL7 Version 2 Version 2 Certification HL7 Version 2 (V2) is the most widely implemented healthcare standard in the world. 95% of US healthcare organization use it and more than 35 country have V2 implementations. This is especially true in the exchange of orders, results, admission/discharge/transfer (ADT) and public health communication. Why get V2 certified? HL7 V2 certification will help you achieve industry-recognized level of proficiency and expertise. Increase your career opportunity and stand out from the crowd by becoming HL7-certified. The V2.8 Control Specialist exam test proficiency of the Control chapter of the HL7 V2 standard. To pass, you will need to read and review V2 specification and derivative implementation guides, identify component of message a well a explain how message are formatted, exchanged and interpreted. Prerequisites and Fees There are no prerequisite required to take the V2.8 Control Specialist exam. However, we strongly recommend a combination of courses, study resource and practical experience to prepare yourself for the exam. . All HL7 certification and proficiency exam are approved by the VA for reimbursement for eligible veterans. More information is available. Recommended Courses This online introductory 12-week course is offered three time per year. It address HL7 standard for creating and exchanging healthcare information, including V2, V3, CDA and Fast Healthcare Interoperabiilty Resources (FHIR). Part 1 introduces student to HL7 and the basic concept of Version 2. It discus the structure of the standard and cover two of the standard's fundamental chapters: Control and Patient Administration. Part 2 provides student with an overview of the Version 2 Orders and Observations message and major concept and provides a sampling of the type of information that can be communicated using these messages. This 2-part class take a deep dive into the message definition and processing rule and data type definition of the Control chapter of the HL7 Version 2 standard. Experience Opportunities Volunteer for an HL7 work group and participate by developing a standard specification. Attend one of our working group meeting held three time per year at various location across the U.S. and the globe. Cancellation Policy To be eligible for a refund minus the $50 cancellation fee, you must cancel 120 hour before the examination date. However, if you reschedule or cancel within 120 hours, you will be assessed a $95 fee. No show will not be eligible for any refund. Register for the Exam Show the World You Have Standards Pass the HL7 V2 certification exam and earn your V2 badge for displaying on LinkedIn or other online media. Once your receive your certificate of completion, download your badge at Study Resources Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HL7 Version 3 Version 3 Certification The HL7 Reference Information Model (RIM) is an information model representing all information needed for healthcare interoperability. All HL7 standard can be mapped to the RIM. The HL7 Version 3 (V3) RIM is the foundation on which HL7 V3 messaging is built and ha widespread adoption. The HL7 V3 RIM is also the foundation on which HL7's Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is built. Why get V3 certified? HL7 V3 certification will help you achieve industry-recognized level of proficiency and expertise. Increase your career opportunity and stand out from the crowd by becoming HL7-certified. The V3 RIM Specialist certification exam test proficiency at reading the RIM constructs, knowledge of it content and understanding of it design and application. To pass, you need to be able to identify the class and structure of the RIM and recognize their use within standard such a CDA. Prerequisites and Fees There are no prerequisite required to take the V3 RIM Specialist exam. However, we strongly recommend a combination of courses, study resource and practical experience to prepare yourself for the exam. . All HL7 certification and proficiency exam are approved by the VA for reimbursement for eligible veterans. More information is available. Recommended Courses This online introductory 12-week course is offered three time per year. It address HL7 standard for creating and exchanging healthcare information, including V2, V3, CDA and Fast Healthcare Interoperabiilty Resources (FHIR). Part 1 is a rigorous introduction to HL7's Version 3. Part 2 build on fundamental by focusing on how messaging is addressed with the Version 3 standard. This 2-part webinar review RIM concept a part of a student's preparation to sit for the V3 RIM Specialist certification test. Individuals have the option to purchase a certification bundle consisting of the following: Introduction to Version 3 (4 webinars) Exam Preparation for Version 3 (2 webinars) Study tip and Practice Exam Experience Opportunities Volunteer for an HL7 work group and participate by developing a standard specification. Attend one of our working group meeting held three time per year at various location across the U.S. and the globe. Cancellation Policy To be eligible for a refund minus the $50 cancellation fee, you must cancel 120 hour before the examination date. However, if you reschedule or cancel within 120 hours, you will be assessed a $95 fee. No show will not be eligible for any refund. Register for the Exam Show the World You Have Standards Pass the HL7 V3 RIM certification exam and earn your V3 RIM badge for displaying on LinkedIn or other online media. Once your receive your certificate of completion, download your badge at Study Resources Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Certification Directory Certification Directory A comprehensive list of certified member with the type of certification, location, country, and date. Search Certification Directory Certified User: Search Tips Try searching for just the last name, or any part of the name of the person you wish to find. The Certification Location input will also search on partial strings. Learn more about becoming an. Country of Origin: * All Countries-------------AfghanistanAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntigua & BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBosnia & HerzegovinaBotswanaBrazilBritish Virgin IslesBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurma (Myanmar)BurundiCambodiaCanadaCape VerdeCayman IslandsCentral African RepChadChileChinaColombiaComorosCongo-BrazzavilleCook IslandsCosta RicaCroatiaCubaCyprusCzech RepublicDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDjiboutiDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFijiFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuatemalaGuineaGuyanaHaitiHondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsraelItalyIvory CoastJamaicaJapanJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiKuwaitKyrgyzstanLaos PDRLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNauruNepalNetherlandsNetherlands AntillesNew CaledoniaNew ZealandNicaraguaNigeriaNiueNorth KoreaNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalauPalestine TerritoryPanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPeruPhilippinesPitcairn IslandsPolandPortugalPUERTO RICOQatarRepublic of GeorgiaRepublic of YemenReunionRomaniaRussiaRwandaSan MarinoSao Tome & PrincipeSaudi ArabiaSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSlovak RepublicSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth KoreaSpainSri LankaSt .Vincent & GrenadinesSt HelenaSt Kitts & NevisSt LuciaSt Pierre & MiquelonSudanSurinameSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwanTajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoTokelauTongaTrinidad & TobagoTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited StatesUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaVietnamWallis & FutunaWestern SamoaZambiaZimbabwe Certification Type: All Certifications------------------Certified HL7 CDA SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.3 Chapter 2 Control/Query SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.4 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.5 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.6/2.5 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.7 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V3 RIM SpecialistsHL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency ExamHL7 FHIR STU3 Proficiency Exam Certification Location: Certified Between: (MM/DD/YY) and (MM/DD/YY) 20 Most Recently Certified Members 1-20 of 6134Page: 1 Erin Kough United States Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 24, 2024 Michael Albrecht United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Johnson County Community College Apr 24, 2024 Max Walter Wellauer Switzerland HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Digicomp Academy AG_Zurich Apr 24, 2024 Alexandru Vidrean Romania HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 23, 2024 Jeffrey Lee United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam ASM Educational Center Apr 22, 2024 Zvonimir Planinc Croatia HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Algebra LTD Zagreb Apr 22, 2024 Loc Bettini Spain Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 22, 2024 Jason Osborne United States Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 22, 2024 Shawn Turk United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Georgia Gwinnett College Testing Services Apr 17, 2024 Shruti Thokal India Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists VoiceTech Networks Pvt Ltd_BTM Layout Apr 15, 2024 Brian Fung United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 15, 2024 Tony Donohoe Ireland Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 10, 2024 Charles Sarrazin Canada HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 10, 2024 Adrien Gobeil Canada HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 10, 2024 Thomas Debertshuser Germany HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 5, 2024 Thomas Debertshuser Germany HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 5, 2024 Rajat Sharma India Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Meritorious Academy PVT LTD Mar 30, 2024 Nandan Savalia United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam AVTI_South Plainfield Mar 28, 2024 Kavya M India Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists BMM IT Solutions Mar 27, 2024 Hemanth Ande United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Tacoma Community College Mar 25, 2024 1-20 of 6134Page: 1 * Address information is only available for user certified after 2009 and where an address wa supplied. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Contact Us Contact Us Corporate Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower Pkwy Ste 300 # 205 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA +1 (734) 677-7777 (phone) E-mail: HQ Hours of Operation Monday - Friday 8-5 PM ET Wire Transfer Instructions Send fund to: PNC Bank 2901 Plymouth Rd. Ann Arbor, MI 48105 (734) 995-7870 For Credit to: Health Level Seven International, Inc Account / Swift / Routing information: Please contact . Membership Inquiries Director of Membership and Administrative Services Linda Jenkins E-mail: Education / Certification / Training Director of Education Event and Sponsorship Inquiries Director of Meetings Balloting and Publications Director of Technical Publications Project Inquiries Director, Project Management Office (PMO) Dave Hamill E-mail: HL7 Project Manager Sponsors Director of Marketing Patricia Guerra Email: Technical Support Director of Technical Services Eric Schmitt E-mail: Trademark Inquiries For all trademark inquiries, please visit General Inquiries E-mail: Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Agreements Agreements These are the agreement that HL7 ha with various other Standards Development Organizations and other groups. HL7 Agreements and SOUs (512 KB) (322 KB) (261 KB) (449 KB) (333 KB) (297 KB) (291 KB) (484 KB) (807 KB) (58 KB) (1.19 MB) (177 KB) (189 KB) (207 KB) (208 KB) (112 KB) (215 KB) (694 KB) (149 KB) (3.48 MB) (142 KB) (234 KB) (91 KB) (578 KB) (223 KB) (325 KB) (202 KB) (190 KB) (123 KB) (186 KB) (207 KB) HL7 / ISO / CEN Collaboration (46 KB) Other Items (1013 KB) (40 KB) Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > Meet the HL7 Board HL7 Board of Directors You can also , view the or view . The HL7 Executive Committee consists of the officer and the non-voting member of the board. HL7 Board of Directors Officers National Association of Community Health Centers Term end Dec 2025 New York-Presbyterian Hospital Term end Dec 2024 Term end Dec 2025 Duke Clinical & Translational Science Institute Accenture Term end Dec 2024 Directors HL7 Argentina Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Italy Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Norway Term end Dec 2024 Term end Dec 2025 Term end Dec 2024 Friends of HL7 Term end Dec 2024 Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Term end Dec 2024 SMART Health IT Term end Dec 2025 Regenstrief Institute, Inc. Term end Dec 2025 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 Duteau Design Inc Term end Dec 2024 Non-Voting Members of the HL7 Board Health Level Seven International Health Level Seven International Health Level Seven International Health Level Seven International Health Level Seven International Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > Advisory Council Advisory Council The healthcare industry is diverse. There are a limited number of elected member on the HL7 Board of Directors, and therefore they cannot represent all of the area in healthcare. To address this situation, the Board ha asked specific individual from the healthcare industry to participate in the HL7 Advisory Council. Members of the Advisory Council have been chosen based on their: personal experience and background ability to listen to the view of others ability to provide useful strategic advice to the Board The input of the Advisory Council will be critical in helping the Board to make decisions. The Advisory Council position are two-year, nonrenewing seats. In the summer of 2004, five industry leader committed to serving on this committee. The first meeting of the Advisory Council wa convened on July 28, 2004 at Lake Tahoe, CA. Advisory Council Chairs Health Level Seven International Mayo Clinic Advisory Council Members UCSF Center for Digital Health Innovation Coalition for Health AI Epic Kaiser Permanente Mayo Clinic Graphite Health Microsoft Corporation University of Minnesota Ontada Elevance Health 1upHealth Duke Clinical & Translational Science Institute The Sequoia Project Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International International Council Leadership Co-Chair HL7 Argentina Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Norway Term end Dec 2024 US Representative Duke Clinical & Translational Science Institute Affiliate Contact Av. Rivadavia 2134, piso 5 "D" (Buenos Aires Ciudad) ARGENTINA HL7 Argentina PO Box 12902 Brisbane, QLD , QLD 4000 AUSTRALIA HL7 Australia Eggenberger Allee 11 Graz A-8020 AUSTRIA HL7 Austria Reyerslaan 80 1030 Brussels BELGIUM HL7 Belgium Rua Loefgren 662 Vila Clementino Sao Paulo 04040-000 BRAZIL HL7 Brazil c/o Canada Health Infoway 150 King Street West Suite 1200 Toronto , ON M5H 1J9 CANADA HL7 Canada Av. Independencia 1027 Santiago CHILE HL7 Chile Rm.503, Heqiao Mansion Bldg.A 8A Beijing 100 CHINA HL7 China Cra 7C #138-60 Office 901 Bogota D.C. 110121 COLOMBIA HL7 Colombia Fakultet Elektrotehnike Unska 3, 10000 Zagreb CROATIA HL7 Croatia Pod Skolou 437 Tynec nad Sazavou 25741 CZECH REPUBLIC HL7 Czech Republic Fonden Dansk Standard Nordhavn DK-2150 DENMARK HL7 Denmark c/o J Mykkanen, THLP.O.B. 95 Kuopio FI-70701 FINLAND HL7 Finland 25 rue du Louvre Paris 75001 FRANCE HL7 France Anna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 2 10178 Berlin GERMANY HL7 Germany c/o Athens Medical Society Athens GR-11523 GREECE HL7 Greece FD09, Unit 2C, 2/F, Wui Wah Factory Bldg1035-1037 Yee Kuk West Street Lai Chi Kok , 91 CHINA HL7 Hong Kong 21, 1st Floor, 14th A Main Bangalore 560092 INDIA HL7 India Via del Fontanile Anagino 89/B 00118 Roma (RM) , AR ITALY HL7 Italy Hamamatsu Univ School of Med 1-20-1 Handa, Hamamatsu 431-3192 JAPAN HL7 Japan 3rd Fl., 22, Yangjaecheon-Ro Seoul 135-509 KOREA, REPUBLIC OF HL7 Korea Av. Insurgentes Sur 1425 Ciudad de Mexico, CDMX 03920 MEXICO HL7 Mexico Wilem Barentszstraat 13902 De Veenendaal NETHERLANDS HL7 Netherlands 3 Worcester DriveRototuna North Hamilton 3210 NEW ZEALAND HL7 New Zealand Steinsvikkroken 37 N-5237 Raadal NORWAY HL7 Norway Calle Simon Condori286 Dept 802Pueblo Libre DistrictLima, Peru Pueblo Libre 15084 PERU HL7 Peru Ortigas Avenue Pasig City PHILIPPINES HL7 Philippines u. Chalubinskiego 8 00-613 Warszawa POLAND HL7 Poland Estrada de Alfragide Alfragide 2610-008 PORTUGAL HL7 Portugal Dept of Computer Science and sector 6 Bucharest ROMANIA HL7 Romania Ostrovitjanova 1 Moscow 117997 RUSSIAN FEDERATION HL7 Russia c/o MOH Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore 099253 SINGAPORE HL7 Singapore Lesna 18, 900 31 Stupava SLOVAKIA HL7 Slovakia C/O SDMI SI-1000 Ljubljana SLOVENIA HL7 Slovenia c/o Hospital Asepeyo Barcelona 08174 SPAIN HL7 Spain Vastra Gotalands Regionen (VGA) 411 04 Gothemburg SWEDEN HL7 Sweden Geschaftsstelle St. Gallen CH-9014 SWITZERLAND HL7 Switzerland P.O. Box 806 Taipei City 10099 TAIWAN HL7 Taiwan Dubai Health Authority Dubai UNITED ARAB EMIRATES HL7 UAE PO BOx 7230 Hook RG27 9WX UNITED KINGDOM HL7 UK Richna vul. 3, app. 5 Kyiv 01135 UKRAINE HL7 Ukraine Regional Partners Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International HL7 Europe Foundation The European Office of HL7 Download the . HL7 International established HL7 Europe, it European Office, a a private foundation in Brussels in June 2010 to support it mission in creating HL7 standard and framework that are widely and easily used enabling interoperability in healthcare, also serving the specific need of the European community and it national HL7 affiliates. Specifically, HL7 Europe support the mission of HL7 international through activity focused in cross-border eHealth interoperability in the wider European region by: promoting the use of the HL7 framework and protocol specification encouraging the use of the HL7 framework and protocol specification by health system and service provider Seeking formal accreditation for these HL7 protocol specification where necessary generally, promoting high quality, cost-effective use of information system in the widest variety of health and healthcare related environments. Moreover, HL7 Europe may notably contribute directly or indirectly, in collaboration with HL7 affiliate and other stakeholder to the development and adoption of HL7 standard and frameworks: Work with International and European Organizations and establish partnership Mobilize resource from the public, private, and philanthropic sector Participate in EU funded program Run campaigns, organize conferences, seminar and forum Contribute to and conduct research and study Publish and promote all documentation relating to the use of the framework and protocol specification developed by HL7 who shall exercise all applicable copyright to said materials. Support and contribute to clinical trials. The work of HL7 ha been recognized by the academic community a notable development of the HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) and HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) ha been published in accredited journals. HL7 Europe aim to further mobilize the European community to contribute to these from a European perspective, enabling in collaboration with affiliate easy and consistent implementation. HL7 Europe ha participated in a number of project co-funded by the European Commission: Semantic Healthnet (2011-2015), EC SEHGovIA , PI for HL7 Europe, 2011-2014 Trillium Bridge (2013-2015) EC 7th Framework Program Antilope , (2013-2015) AssessCT (2015-2016) (2015-2016) EXPAND "Expanding Health Data Interoperability Services" (2015-2016) EC, Competitiveness and Innovation Program, eStandards (2015-2017) Trillium II (2017-2019) Gravitate Healt (2020-2025), EC Horizon2020, Innovative Medicine Initiative 2 UNICOM (2019-2023) Gatekeeper (2019-2023), EC Horizon2020 FAIR4Health (2018-2021), EC Horizon2020 PanCareSurPass , (2021-2025) EC Horizon2020 X-eHealth (2020-2022), EC Horizon2020 WHO - ITU mHealth Hub in EU, mHealthHub (2020-2022) -IDEA4RC: Intelligent Ecosystem to improve the governance, the sharing and the re-use of health Data for Rare Cancers (2022-2026), xShare: Expanding the European EHRxF to share and effectively use health data within the EHDS (2023-2026), OneAquaHealth Protecting urban aquatic ecosystem to promote One Health(2023-2026) Flute Federate Learning and mUlti-party computation Techniques for prostatE cancer (2023-2026), NextGen: Next Generation Tools for Genome-Centric Multimodal Data Integration in Personalized Cardiovascular Medicine: XpanDH Expanding Digital Health through a pan-European EHRxF-based Ecosystem HL7 Europe also serf in advisory capacity to the following initiatives: (2020-2022) EC Horizon2020, Inovative Medicines Initiative 2, 2018 InteropEHRate (2020-2022) , German project on the management of scientific data for health Through those project and it participation in the eHealth Stakeholders group of the Health and Aging Well Unit of DG Connect, participation in the JIC, and a formal relation to CEN/TC251, HL7 Europe aim to engage the HL7 community in further advancing eHealth interoperability standard in Europe and Worldwide. HL7 Europe is governed through it Board of Directors, which are: Julia Lynn SKAPIK, MD, PhD, United States Andrew Truscott, United Kingdom Catherine CHRONAKI, Greece Karen van Hentenryck, United States Robert Arjen STEGWEE, PhD, The Netherlands Giorgio CANGIOLI, PhD, Italy Anne MOEN, PhD, Norway Jens Kristian VILLADSEN, Denmark Line Andreassen SAELE, Norway Henrique Manuel GIL MARTINS, MD, PhD, Portugal William Edward HAMMOND, PhD, United States Roeland LUYKX, Switzerland Charles JAFFE, MD, PhD, United Staes Contact Information HL7 European Office HL7 Europe Foundation Square de Mees 38/40 1000 Brussels Belgium E-mail: Website: Head of Office Catherine Chronaki Secretary General, HL7 Europe Foundation Technical Lead Giorgio Cangioli Technical Lead, HL7 Europe Foundation Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Technical Steering Committee Home (Archived) (Archived) Overview Mission The HL7 Technical Steering Committees (TSC) mission is to provide technical leadership to the HL7 organization to achieve the vision of creating a world in which everyone can securely access and use the right health data when and where they need it. Th... [] Documents and Presentations RSS 1-10 of 22Page: 1 Jan 23, 2024 9:32:55 PM Nov 28, 2023 10:20:30 PM Sep 5, 2023 3:05:38 PM May 2, 2023 3:02:49 PM Jan 12, 2023 4:14:06 PM Oct 15, 2022 10:40:01 PM Sep 13, 2022 1:47:04 PM May 3, 2022 3:10:10 PM Mar 24, 2022 2:45:03 PM Jan 11, 2022 4:03:48 PM 1-10 of 22Page: 1 Minutes RSS 1-1 of 1Page: 1 Sep 20, 2016 2:19:54 PM 1-1 of 1Page: 1 Listserv Discussions No message in the last 30 day or visit the . Upcoming Calls May 13, 2024; 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM ET (GMT -4) Add to Calendar HL7 Con Call - Technical Steering Committee May 13, 2024 11:00 AM May 13, 2024 12:00 PM HL7 Con Call - Technical Steering Committee May 20, 2024; 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM ET (GMT -4) Add to Calendar HL7 Con Call - Technical Steering Committee May 20, 2024 11:00 AM May 20, 2024 12:00 PM HL7 Con Call - Technical Steering Committee Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > Facilitators HL7 Facilitators (44 KB) Biomedical Research and Regulation Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc Blue Wave Informatics Mead Walker Consulting Clinical Decision Support Parexel International Parexel International MD Partners, Inc. Clinical Genomics National Marrow Donor Program Philips Healthcare Intermountain Healthcare Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Clinical Interoperability Council Pfizer Hi3 Solutions Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs MITRE Corporation MITRE Corporation Cross-Group Projects Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc Devices HL7 Germany U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs OR.NET HL7 Canada Electronic Health Records Lantana Consulting Group Emergency Care FHIR Infrastructure Lantana Consulting Group Health Intersections Pty Ltd Financial Management U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs MITRE Corporation MITRE Corporation HL7 Switzerland HL7 Switzerland Imaging Integration HL7 Canada Infrastructure and Messaging Mayo Clinic Kaiser Permanente Health Intersections Pty Ltd Orders and Observations Hausam Consulting LLC HL7 Canada Patient Administration NICTIZ NICTIZ Patient Care Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc Pharmacy Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc Blue Wave Informatics Bear Health Tech Consulting LLC Public Health Northrop Grumman Technology Services Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc Madra Consulting, Inc. Security MITRE Corporation MITRE Corporation Structured Documents Leidos, Inc. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/CDC Technical Steering Committee HL7 Germany Duteau Design Inc Duteau Design Inc MD Partners, Inc. Leidos, Inc. Terminology Infrastructure Work Group Hausam Consulting LLC Terminology Services Management Group (TSMG) U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs MD Partners, Inc. US Realm Steering Committee MD Partners, Inc. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > Co-Chairs HL7 Co-Chairs Arden Syntax HL7 Austria Term end Dec 2025 Charles Drew University/UCLA Term end Dec 2024 Biomedical Research and Regulation Duteau Design Inc Term end Dec 2024 Univ of TX Health Science Center San Antonio Term end Dec 2025 Samvit Solutions Term end Dec 2024 CDA Management Group HL7 Italy Term end Dec 2025 NoMoreClipboard.com Term end Dec 2024 Term end Dec 2024 The Sequoia Project Term end Dec 2024 Dynamic Health IT, Inc. Term end Dec 2025 Lantana Consulting Group Term end Dec 2024 Optimum eHealth Term end Dec 2025 MEDITECH, Inc Term end Dec 2025 Optum Term end Dec 2025 ADVault, Inc. Term end Dec 2025 Clinical Decision Support Charles Drew University/UCLA Term end Dec 2025 University of Utah Health Care Term end Dec 2025 Alphora Term end Dec 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health Term end Dec 2024 Epic Term end Dec 2024 Clinical Genomics USC/CHLA Term end Dec 2024 Mayo Clinic Term end Dec 2025 SMART Health IT Term end Dec 2024 MITRE Corporation Term end Dec 2024 Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Germany Term end Dec 2025 Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Graphite Health Term end Dec 2025 Graphite Health Term end Dec 2025 University of Utah Health Care Term end Dec 2024 Clinical Interoperability Council University of Utah Health Care Term end Dec 2025 InterSystems Term end Dec 2025 NextGen BMI, University of Missouri Term end Dec 2024 Duke Clinical & Translational Science Institute Term end Dec 2024 Graphite Health Term end Dec 2024 Clinical Quality Information MITRE Corporation Term end Dec 2025 Optimum eHealth Term end Dec 2025 Telligen Term end Dec 2025 ICF Term end Dec 2024 NCQA Term end Dec 2024 Community-Based Care and Privacy Security Risk Solutions, Inc. (SRS) Term end Dec 2024 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 PointClickCare Term end Dec 2025 Security Risk Solutions, Inc. (SRS) Term end Dec 2024 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 Conformance American Immunization Registry Association (AIRA) Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Germany Term end Dec 2024 National Institute of Standards and Technology Term end Dec 2025 Cross-Group Projects Duteau Design Inc Term end Dec 2024 IParsimony, LLC Term end Dec 2025 Devices OR.NET Term end Dec 2025 National Institute of Standards and Technology Term end Dec 2025 Term end Dec 2024 Rhoads Systems Inc. Term end Dec 2024 Philips Healthcare Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2025 Electronic Health Records Registry Clearinghouse Term end Dec 2024 EHR Standards Consulting Term end Dec 2024 Medical Networks, LLC Term end Dec 2025 Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Netherlands Term end Dec 2024 Term end Dec 2025 University of Arkansas Medical Sciences Term end Dec 2024 Emergency Care Graphite Health Term end Dec 2024 NextGen BMI, University of Missouri Term end Dec 2025 FHIR Infrastructure Work Group Microsoft Corporation Term end Dec 2025 Health Intersections Pty Ltd Term end Dec 2025 SMART Health IT Term end Dec 2024 Dogwood Health Consulting Inc. Term end Dec 2024 MITRE Corporation Term end Dec 2025 Lantana Consulting Group Term end Dec 2024 FHIR Management Group HL7 Australia Term end Dec 2025 HL7 New Zealand Term end Dec 2024 Financial Management Lantana Consulting Group Term end Dec 2024 Elevance Health Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2024 American Medical Association Term end Dec 2025 Onyx Technology LLC Term end Dec 2025 AEGIS.net, Inc. Term end Dec 2024 Human and Social Services Work Group USAging Term end Dec 2024 Term end Dec 2025 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 Zane Networks LLC. Term end Dec 2025 Imaging Integration Canon Medical System HIT Division Term end Dec 2025 American College of Radiology Term end Dec 2024 Implementable Technology Specifications Lantana Consulting Group Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2025 Kaiser Permanente Term end Dec 2024 Infrastructure and Messaging Mayo Clinic Term end Dec 2025 Epic Term end Dec 2024 Surescripts Term end Dec 2024 International Council HL7 Argentina Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Norway Term end Dec 2024 Learning Health Systems University of Utah Health Care Term end Dec 2025 InterSystems Term end Dec 2024 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/CDC Term end Dec 2025 Mobile Health Westat Term end Dec 2024 CAL2CAL Corporation Term end Dec 2024 Mayo Clinic Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Netherlands Term end Dec 2024 Orders and Observations Oracle Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Canada Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Belgium Term end Dec 2024 Hausam Consulting LLC Term end Dec 2025 Roche Diagnostics International Ltd. Term end Dec 2025 Vernetzt, LLC Term end Dec 2024 Children's Mercy Hospitals and Clinics Term end Dec 2025 Food and Drug Administration Term end Dec 2024 Patient Administration HL7 Austria Term end Dec 2025 Microsoft Corporation Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Norway Term end Dec 2024 Epic Term end Dec 2025 Patient Care HL7 Australia Term end Dec 2024 Graphite Health Term end Dec 2025 Allscripts Term end Dec 2025 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 Optum Term end Dec 2024 Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Netherlands Term end Dec 2025 Patient Empowerment Epic Term end Dec 2025 New York-Presbyterian Hospital Term end Dec 2024 ADVault, Inc. Term end Dec 2024 MITRE Corporation Term end Dec 2025 Payer/Provider Information Exchange Health Care Service Corporation Term end Dec 2024 Elevance Health Term end Dec 2024 BlueCross BlueShield of Alabama Term end Dec 2025 Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Term end Dec 2025 Pharmacy HL7 Belgium Term end Dec 2024 Duteau Design Inc Term end Dec 2025 Term end Dec 2024 Frank McKinney Group LLC Term end Dec 2025 Public Health Tennessee Department of Health Term end Dec 2025 Washington State Department of Health Term end Dec 2024 Altarum Term end Dec 2024 Altarum Term end Dec 2025 Allscripts Term end Dec 2025 Security MITRE Corporation Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Austria Term end Dec 2025 By Light Professional IT Services LLC Term end Dec 2024 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Australia Term end Dec 2024 Services Oriented Architecture HL7 Italy Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Australia Term end Dec 2024 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Term end Dec 2025 Structured Documents Computable Publishing LLC Term end Dec 2025 Namaste Informatics Term end Dec 2025 Availity LLC Term end Dec 2025 Deloitte Consulting LLP Term end Dec 2024 Epic Term end Dec 2024 Computable Publishing LLC Term end Dec 2024 Terminology Infrastructure Apelon, Inc. Term end Dec 2025 Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Australia Term end Dec 2024 Duteau Design Inc Term end Dec 2025 Hausam Consulting LLC Term end Dec 2025 Clinical Architecture LLC Term end Dec 2024 Terminology Services Management Group Apelon, Inc. Term end Dec 2024 HL7 Australia Term end Dec 2025 Clinical Architecture LLC Term end Dec 2025 US Realm Steering Committee Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT WaveOne Associates Inc. V2 Management Group Vernetzt, LLC Term end Dec 2025 Altarum Term end Dec 2025 HL7 Germany Term end Dec 2024 Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 Staff HL7 Staff HL7 Executives HL7 Staff Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Standards-based Product Grid Standards-based Product Grid Show the world you have standard Get to show the world you have standards! After you've completed your certification, don't forget to download your digital badge at . HL7 encompasses the complete life cycle of a standard specification including the development, adoption, market recognition, utilization, and adherence. Please refer to our for more information about how member and non-members can use the standards. This Product Grid includes all Products in an Active or Stable status of their life cycle. Retired standard are available on a . These lifecycle status are defined as: Active: A standard that ha been published, is known to be or planned to be in use, and is planned to have future maintenance releases. Stable: A standard that may be in use and may generate some feedback and questions, but is not under active review, or expected to be updated in the foreseeable future. Retired: A standard that ha no current or planned standard development activity within the community; which may no longer be in use, or which should not be considered for use. Click a Product for more information Filters Filter options: Ballot Type DSTU DSTU (Expired) Informative Normative Normative (R1) Not Published SHARE Document STU Current State Active Retired Stable Family Arden CCOW CDA Cross-paradigm EHR FHIR V2 V3 Product Type Access Access Upgrade ANSI-approved ANSI-registered Technical Report Book Clinical Information Model Data Types Document Domain Analysis Model Domain Analysis Model Domain Content Model Encoding Syntax Functional Model Functional Profile Implementation Guide Methodology Specifications Services Specification Errata Standard Reference Materials Structures Tools Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) V3 White Paper XML Schemas Realm German Universal US Realm Stakeholder Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Emergency Services Providers Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions HIS Vendors Immunization Registries Lab Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors Quality Reporting Agencies Regulatory Agency Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Topic Attachments Cardiology Care Provision CCOW Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Clinical Statement Community-Based Health Decision Support Emergency Management Financial Management Healthcare Devices HHSFR Laboratory Materials Management Medical Records Nutrition Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Referral Personnel Management Pharmacy Public Health Regulated Products Regulated Studies Scheduling Security and Privacy SPL Terminology Work Group Administrative Steering Division Affiliate Engagement Committee Anesthesia Architectural Review Arden Syntax Biomedical Research and Regulation Clinical Context Object Workgroup Clinical Decision Support Clinical Genomics Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Clinical Interoperability Council Clinical Quality Information Clinical Statement Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) Conformance Cross-Group Projects Devices Electronic Health Records Emergency Care FHIR Infrastructure FHIR Management Group Financial Management Human and Social Services Imaging Integration Implementable Technology Specifications Infrastructure and Messaging Learning Health Systems Mobile Health Modeling and Methodology Orders and Observations Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Empowerment Patient Safety Payer/Provider Information Exchange Work Group Pharmacy Project Services Public Health Publishing Security Services Oriented Architecture Structured Documents Technical Steering Committee Templates Terminology Infrastructure Work Group Tooling V2 Management Group Filter Title Description Ballot Status Status Date Work Group Product Type Topic Current State Stakeholder Realm Section=24,Product_Type=SFM,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ARB "HL7 Service-Aware Interoperability Framework: Canonical Definition, Release 1","HL7 Service-Aware Interoperability Framework: Canonical Definition Specification, R2",SAIF, SAEAF, SAIF-CD The Service-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) provides consistency between all artifacts, enables a standardized approach to Enterprise Architecture development and implementation, and a way ... Informative, Normative 2014-11-07 ANSI-approved, Methodology Specifications, Services, Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "GELLO, R2",GELLO GELLO, part of the HL7 Version 3 Normative Edition, is a standard query and expression language that provides a suitable framework for manipulation of clinical data for decision support in healthcare. The GELLO language can be used to build... Normative 2010-04-28 ANSI-approved Decision Support Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Implementation Guide for CDA R2 CCD The Continuity of Care Document (CCD) is a joint effort of HL7 International and ASTM. CCD foster interoperability of clinical data by allowing physician to send electronic medical information to other provider without loss of meani... Informative 2007-04-01 HHSFR, Patient Referral Stable Universal Section=1,Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2","Clinical Document Architecture, R2","Clinical Document Architecture, R2 (Reaffirmation)",CDAR2,CDA R2 The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provi... Normative 2015-02-27 ANSI-approved HHSFR Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=IMAGEMGT "HL7 CDA: Imaging Integration; Basic Imaging Reports in CDA and DICOM, Release 1",DICOM,CDA,DIR This HL7 implementation guide describes how the HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 is used to record information for a Diagnostic Imaging Report. A Diagnostic Imaging Repo... Informative 2007-03-16 Patient Care Stable Equipment Vendors, Medical Imaging Service Providers Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR EHR Behavioral Health Functional Profile,BH FP This HL7 EHR Behavioral Health Functional Profile (EHR BH FP) contains the function and conformance criterion deemed important for behavioral health care providers' clinical record systems. At a minimum, this profile provi... Normative 2014-04-11 ANSI-approved, Functional Profile Stable Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR HL7 EHR Child Health Functional Profile,CH FP The HL7 Child Health Functional Profile for EHR Systems (Child Health Profile) is designed to assist children's healthcare provider and associated IT vendor to create functionality that ensu... Normative 2008-12-10 ANSI-approved, Functional Profile Stable Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR HL7 EHR Clinical Research Functional Profile,CR FP The EHR Clinical Research Functional Profile (EHR CR FP) provides high-level functional requirement necessary for using electronic health record (EHR) data for regulated clinical research. It a... Normative 2009-07-20 ANSI-approved, Functional Profile Regulated Studies Stable Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EHR HL7 EHR-S Vital Records Functional Profile,VR The Electronic Health Record System Vital Records Functional Profile (VRFP) identifies Electronic Health Record system function that support the capture of vital record (Birth, Fetal Death and Death-related) information at the point of co... Informative 2012-03-06 ANSI-registered Technical Report, Functional Profile Public Health Stable Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: CDA Framework for Questionnaire Assessments, Release 1",CDAR2 This Implementation Guide (IG) facilitates a standard electronic communication for electronic submission to CDA of their Questionnaire Assessments. These allow healthcare facility and provider a standard way to communicate report in an in... DSTU 2021-06-17 Patient Care Stable US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=HHSFR,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 3","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 4","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 1",Infobutton IG,Infobutton The Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) specification provide a standard mechanism for clinical information system to request context-specific clinical knowledge form online resources. This ha become a widely adopted appro... Normative 2014-06-13 ANSI-approved, Services Care Provision, Decision Support, HHSFR Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model, Release 1","HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model, Release 2",CG This Implementation Guide detail structuring genetic test result into the electronic health record or system for translational medicine, utilizing HL7 version 2.5.1. Data structure enables clinical decision suppo... Informative 2013-03-14 Clinical Genomics, Laboratory Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3: Public Health: Tuberculosis Domain Analysis Model, R1",TB DAM,TB The HL7 Version 3 Tuberculosis Domain Analysis Model (DAM) represents the clinical process associated with managing pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) from the point at which patient present themselves at treatment sites, through diagn... Informative 2009-06-04 Domain Analysis Model Public Health Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 IG: Drug Stability Reporting R2, R3",V3,DSR This implementation guide for Drug Stability Reporting (eStability) describes the basic requirement needed for using the standard, and the requirement needed for submitting information to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) agency using... Informative 2011-11-15 Regulated Studies Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "V 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders & Observations; Ambulatory Care Lab Result (ELINCS), Release 1" This HL7 Version 2.5.1 Ambulatory Care Laboratory Result (ELINCS) Implementation Guide provides guidance on how to apply the HL7 Version 2.5.1 standard for the electronic reporting of laboratory test result to electronic health recor... Informative 2008-07-21 ANSI-registered Technical Report Laboratory Stable US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2 - Level 3: Personal Healthcare Monitoring Reports, Release 1",PHM,CDAR2,PHMR, health monitoring report The Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report (PHMR) is a document that carry personal healthcare monitoring information, or patient measurement data taken by consumer medical devices. The primary use case around which the PHMR ... Normative 2014-10-06 Care Provision, Medical Records, Patient Care Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Reporting, R2","HL7 IG for CDA R2: Public Health Case Reporting, Release 1","Public Health Case Reporting" The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for electronic submission of electronic initial public health case report using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format. This imple... Informative 2009-10-27 Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=CQI "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Quality Reporting Document Architecture, Release 1",QRDA, Quality Report Document Architecture, Measure Report,QRDA Cat I STU5,QRDA I STU 5.3 This two-volume implementation guide (IG) describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element for Quality Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA) documents. The Institute of Medic... STU 2021-12-08 , Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Decision Support, Patient Care, Regulated Products Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Regulated Product Submission, R2","V3: Regulated Product Submission, R1","V3: Regulated Product Submission, R2",RPS,V3 The scope of the standard is to define the message for exchanging information electronically between Regulators and Industry, and between set of regulators. The message provides the ability to desc... Normative 2020-07-27 ANSI-approved Public Health, Regulated Products, Regulated Studies Stable Pharmaceutical Vendors Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3 DAM: Emergency Medical Services, R1",EMS The standard is a Domain Analysis Model (DAM) specific to emergency medical service in the pre-hospital setting. The DAM is balloted a an informative document and used a a reference in subs... Informative 2013-05-16 Domain Analysis Model Decision Support, Patient Care Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Cardiology,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Topic=Devices,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HEALTHCAREDEVICES,wg=ORDERS "V3: Implantable Device Cardiac, R1","V3: Implantable Device Cardiac, R2","V3: Implantable Device Cardiac, R2",IDC The HL7 Version 3 Implantable Device Cardiac (IDC) Follow-up Summary is a message model for describing an observation of an interrogator at a physical location who is performing an interrogation of a therapeutic medical device (boun... Normative 2013-10-11 , ANSI-approved Cardiology, Healthcare Devices Stable Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM "V3 Message Control Act, Query, and Transmission Infrastructure, R1","V3 Message Control Act Infrastructure, R2","V3 Message Control Query Infrastructure, R2","V3 Transmission Infrastructure, R2",Reaffirmation of Master File - Registry Infrastructure R1,MCQI,MCAI,MFRI The Infrastructure Management section of the HL7 Version 3 Normative Edition focus on the development and management of specification that support the routing of message to their specified dest... Normative 2016-08-05 ANSI-approved, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=NORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE_R1,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "V3: ISO-Harmonized Data Types, Release 1",DTR2,ISO Data type This product provides a set of global representation for data used in the presentation and communication of healthcare information. This standardized set ha been approved by the International Standards Organizations (ISO) Medic... Normative, Normative (R1) 2013-08-30 Data Types Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTSAFETY "V3: Individual Case Safety Report, R2","V3: Individual Case Safety Report, R1","V3 IG: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report R1, Release 1",ICSR The Individual Case Safety Report (ICSR) capture information about adverse event and product problem that are reported to public health, patient safety/quality improvement organization or regulatory agencies. The ICSR messa... Normative 2011-01-25 ANSI-approved Public Health Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=ITS "V3 Minimal Lower Layer Protocol (MLLP), Release 2","Reaffirmation of the HL7 Version 3 Standard: Transport Specification - MLLP, Release 2",Transport Spec MLLP,MLLP The purpose of the MLLP Protocol (Minimum Lower Layer Protocol) is to provide both a minimalistic Open Systems Interconnection (OSI)-session layer framing protocol a well a a minimalistic reliable transport protocol. If secur... Normative 2011-11-01 , ANSI-approved, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3: Laboratory; Result, R1",LAB The HL7 Version 3 Normative Editions laboratory domain comprises the models, messages, and other artifact that are needed to support messaging related to the result or observation asso... Normative 2009-12-15 ANSI-approved Laboratory Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Scheduling, R2","V3: Scheduling, R1",Patient Administration, Scheduling,SCHED Scheduling is both a domain and a process. As a domain, Scheduling requires a generic set of message and behavior to implement any number of Scheduling scenarios. As a process, Scheduling can offe... Normative 2014-12-12 ANSI-approved Patient Administration, Scheduling Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Healthcare Institutions, Medical Imaging Service Providers Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM Shared Messages Release 3,"Shared Messages, R2","V3: Shared Messages, R1",COMT HL7 Version 3 Shared Messages are a work product produced for expressing common, useful and reusable message types. A Shared Message can be envisioned a a message type that is reusable in interaction in any of the domain within the HL7 stand... Normative 2010-01-05 ANSI-approved Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "V3 DAM: Vital Records, R1" The HL7 Version 3 Domain Analysis Model: Vital Records (VR DAM) describes the workflow and stakeholder for transmitting birth and death data to and from U.S. vital record systems. The VR DAM desc... Informative 2011-04-18 Domain Analysis Model Public Health Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Reaffirmation of Version 3 Standard: Regulated Studies - Annotated ECG, Release 1","Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG (aECG), Release 1","HL7 V3: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG, Release 1",V3,aECG The purpose of the HL7 Version 3 Annotated Electrocardiogram (aECG) standard is to provide a mean to systematically evaluate the ECG waveform and measurement locations. The US Food and Drug... Normative 2019-08-09 ANSI-approved Regulated Studies Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM HL7 DAM: BRIDG R4,V3 DAM: BRIDG R3,V3DAM: BRIDG R2,"HL7 V3 DAM: Biomedical Research Integrated Domain (BRIDG), R1",V3,BRIDG,DAM,BRIDG Model,Biomedical Research Integrated Domain Group Model The BRIDG Model is the result of a collaborative effort between CDISC, HL7, ISO, the US FDA, and the US NCI to build a Domain Information Model for Biomedical Research. These group have participated in the BRIDG development and a... Informative 2018-10-25 Domain Analysis Model Regulated Studies Stable Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE V3 HACC R3,"HL7 Version 3 Standard: Role-based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 2","Role-Based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 1",V3,RBAC,Healthcare Access Control Catalog,HACC,Permission Catalog,, ABAC, ACHPCAT The Healthcare (Security and Privacy) Access Control Catalog is a new standard extending the current normative HL7 Role-based Access Control (RBAC) Permission Catalog standard. The upda... Normative 2016-10-05 ANSI-approved Security and Privacy Stable Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=SECURE,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS); Access Control, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) - Access Control, Release 1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) - Access Control, PIM Level, Release 1",PASS,PASS ACS, PASS Access Control The purpose of this document is to describe the conceptual-level viewpoint associated with the business requirement that relate to the content, structure, and functional behavior of information important to the Access Control area of th... Normative 2021-12-16 , , Services Security and Privacy Stable Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ICTC "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Refinement, Constraint and Localization to V3 Messages, R2","V3 Refinement, Constraint and Localization, Release 2",RCL This HL7 Version 3 (V3) standard describes the process whereby HL7 V3 artifact specification may be refined, constrained and extended to support implementation designs, conformance profiles, and realm-specific stand... Normative 2015-09-09 ANSI-approved Stable Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=MNM "V3 Reference Information Model, R1","V3 Reference Information Model, R2","V3 Reference Information Model, R4","V3 Reference Information Model, R6","V3 Reference Information Model, R5","V3 Reference Information Model, R3",RIM The HL7 Reference Information Model (RIM) is a critical component of the HL7 V3 family of standards. It is the root of all information model and structure developed a part of the V3 development process. ... Normative 2013-08-09 ANSI-approved, Methodology Specifications Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultant and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Stable Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultants, and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Stable Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "Entity Identification Service, R1",EIS,IS,IXS The Identification Service (IS) also known a the Identification and Cross-Reference Service (IXS) Service Functional Model define the functional requirement which provides a set of capability to manage and retrieve identifying infor... Normative 2014-04-01 Services Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR HL7 PHR-S FM R2,"HL7 Personal Health Record-System Functional Model, Release 1","PHR-System Functional Model, Release 1",PHR FM,Personal Health Record System Functional Model, PHR System Standard,PHR-S FM Release 2; PHR-S FM R2 The PHR-S FM standard will address the functional need of Personal Health Record system developer and users. PHR information is expected to be sent, received, or exchanged from multiple systems, including: EHR systems, insurer systems, payer... Normative 2021-10-12 Functional Profile Community-Based Health, Medical Records, Patient Care Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Retrieve, Locate, and Update Service (RLUS), Release 1","HL7 V3 Standard: Retrieve, Locate and Update Service (RLUS), Release 1",RLUS The Retrieve, Locate, and Update Service (RLUS) Service Functional Model specify the appropriate capability that must be realized by a service interface to locate, retrieve, and update resource (e.g. documents, messages) among and w... Normative 2019-07-19 Services Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2L3: Neonatal Care Report, R1",CDAR2 This implementation guide (IG) specifies a standard for electronic submission of neonatal care record (NCRs) in a Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 (R2) format. This facilitates electronic extraction of a subset of the C... DSTU 2010-06-21 Patient Care Stable US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Patient Administration CMETs, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration; Person Registry, Release 1","V3: Patient Administration; Patient Encounter, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration, DSTU Release 2; Person Registry Enhancement, Release 1","V3: Patient Administration, R1","V3: Patient Administration; Encounter Topics R2, DSTU R1",PA The Patient Administration standard defines the requirement and specification to support the interoperability among clinical and non-clinical system regarding patient encounter and administrative registries.... DSTU, Normative 2016-04-12 Patient Administration Stable Payors Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Personnel Management, R1",PM The Personnel Management Domain span a variety of clinical-administrative information function associated with organizations, individuals, animal and device involved in the delivery and support of healthcare services. The domai... Normative 2005-10-28 ANSI-approved Personnel Management Stable Payors Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS OO The Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide; Orders and Observations; Interoperable Laboratory Result Reporting to EHR (US Realm), Release 1 provides guidance on how to apply the Version 2.5.1 standard to the exchange of laboratory resul... Informative 2008-02-07 HHSFR, Laboratory, Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=CQI "V3: Representation of the Health Quality Measure Format, R1",V3,HQMF,eMeasures The Health Quality Measures Format (HQMF) is a standard for representing a health quality measure a an electronic document. A quality measure is a quantitative tool that provides an indication of an individual or organ... Normative 2017-06-15 , Decision Support, Patient Care Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), R1","HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), Release 1",ELR, ELRR1 IG, This product page contains the Release 1 Informative Standard of HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health. If you are seeking the Release 2 Draft Standard for Trial Use o... Informative 2021-12-15 , HHSFR, Laboratory, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories US Realm Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA This document describes a methodology for defining service within the healthcare domain, in particular, for area covered by Health Level Seven (HL7) domain content; an effort known a Service Oriented Architecture for Health Level Seven... Informative 2007-01-29 Methodology Specifications, Services Stable Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=MNM "V3 Specification: Model Interchange Format (MIF), R1",MIF The HL7 Version 3 Specification: Model Interchange Format (MIF), Release 1 defines the content of the artifact used by HL7, HL7 affiliate and implementers in the creation and implementation of HL7 v3 specifications, including messa... Informative 2011-08-11 Methodology Specifications Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 V3 IG: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG R1, R2","HL7 aECG Implementation Guide, R1",V3,aECG,"annotated ECG Implementation Guide" This HL7 Version 3 implementation guide offer supplemental material for the January, 2004 annotated ECG (aECG), standard. This implementation guide is not complete in itself and should be used in conjunction with the HL7 aECG stand... Informative 2015-06-25 Regulated Studies Stable US Realm Product_Type=BOOK,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV Book Active Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Cardiology,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3: Cardiology: Cardiology (Acute Coronary Syndrome) Domain Analysis Model, R1",ACS DAM,CARD Data standard support seamless interchange of electronic information within the healthcare environment. The purpose of the cardiovascular domain analysis model (CV DAM) is to facilitate collection of structured data during the care deliv... Informative 2013-03-29 Domain Analysis Model Cardiology, Patient Care Stable Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EHR "HL7 EHR Long Term Care Functional Profile, R1",LTC FP The HL7 EHR System Long Term Care Functional Profile(LTC EHR-S FP)establishes the function and conformance criterion for EHR system in the nursing home setting for the US Realm, and will... Normative 2010-09-03 ANSI-approved, Functional Profile Stable Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=11,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Plan-to-plan PHR Data Transfer, Release 1",CDAR2 This document describes constraint on the Health Level Seven International (HL7) Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 - Continuity of Care Documents (CCD) specification to support personal health record data ... Informative 2011-04-18 Patient Referral Stable US Realm Product_Type=BOOK,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Book Stable Universal Product_Type=BOOK,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Book Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Version 2.3.1 Normative 1999-04-14 ANSI-approved HHSFR Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS Version 2.5.1,v2,V251,V2.5.1 Additional information on the V2 Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (SOGI) Data Exchange Profile athttp://www.hl7.org/permalink/?SOGIGuidance. Normative 2007-02-21 ANSI-approved HHSFR Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM Version 2.6,V2,V26,V2.6 Normative 2007-10-12 ANSI-approved Stable Universal Product_Type=BOOK,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Book Stable Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultant and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Informative Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultants, and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Informative Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultants, and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Informative Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Test Compendium Framework, Release 2",eDOS IG,eDOS, AOE The content of the Laboratory Test Compendium Framework is a Laboratorys DOS. The content is owned by the sending laboratory for the purpose of being used by the compendium consumer to be able to order laboratory service and t... DSTU, STU 2013-11-26 Implementation Guide Laboratory Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS LOI IG,Laboratory Order Interface, LOI The Laboratory Orders Interface Initiative focus on identifying the requirements, specification and standards, and on providing the implementation guidance for electronic ordering of laboratory test in the US Realm. The scope of the Labor... DSTU, STU 2013-12-03 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Laboratory, Patient Care, Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "V3 XML Implementable Technology Specification for V3 Structures, R1","V3 XML Implementable Technology Specification for V3 Structures 1.1, R1",DTR1.1,V3 XML ITS Structures The objective of this document is to present an Implementable Technology Specification (ITS) for the encoding rule for HL7 Version 3 message based on XML (Extensible Markup Language). Several XML ... Normative 2012-09-28 ANSI-approved, Encoding Syntax, XML Schemas Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Product_Type=BOOK,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Book Stable Universal Family=V3,Product_Type=BOOK,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Book Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Product_Type=TOOLS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access, Tools Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Section=1,Section=20,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Become an HL7 V2 certified control specialist today! ... Informative, Normative Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-Aware Retrieval Application (Infobutton); Knowledge Request, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval Application (Infobutton); Knowledge Request, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton), Release 1",Infobutton,Infobutton Knowledge Request The Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) specification provide a standard mechanism for clinical information system to request context-specific clinical knowledge form online resources. This ha become a widely adopted appro... Normative 2019-08-12 ANSI-approved Care Provision, Decision Support, HHSFR Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLAIMS OID,OIDs The purpose of the HL7 Implementation Guidance for Unique Object Identifiers (OIDs), Release 1 document is to describe how to manage the various value needed to provide global uniqueness for identifier used for patients, docum... Informative 2011-09-07 Methodology Specifications Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "ANSI/HL7 V3 REG RTLTM, R1-2011 (R2016)","V3: Registries, Release 1; Real Time Location Tracking Messaging",RTLT,REG,RTLTM A Real-Time Location System (RLTS) track the location of tag associated with patients, providers, and equipment within a healthcare facility. This document defines storyboards, trigger events, information model and inter... Normative 2016-09-23 ANSI-approved Patient Administration Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Family=V2,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part of this specification. While HL7 publishes schem... Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Version 2 v2.xml XML Schemas for HL7 Version 2.5 and earlier were contributed by Sun Microsystems. These representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML repre... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.4 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 V2.5 v2.xml Message Definitionschema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itsel... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part of this specification. While HL7 publishes schem... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.6 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.7 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Technical correction to HL7 Version 2.4 Messaging Standard. Specification Errata Stable Universal Family=V3,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Technical Corrections to HL7 Version 2.3.1 Messaging Standard Specification Errata Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This addendum is provided to add clarity to implementation of the HL7 version 2.4 messaging standard which choose to follow guideline for implementing the standard with an XML encoding. This addendum doe not affect imple... Specification Errata, XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV HL7 Version 2.4 Specification Technical Correction: P03 and P11 Trigger Events were corrected for the DFT message to distinguish P03 segment global across all FT1 segment and detail the new P11 trigger and their associated messa... Specification Errata Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This addendum is provided to add clarity to implementation of the HL7 version 2.3.1 messaging standard which choose to follow guideline for implementing the standard with an XML encoding. This addendum doe not affect imple... Specification Errata, XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV V2.4 - P03 Post Detail Financial Transaction Implementation Suggestion provides FT1 specific charge update segment vs. the global update segment for the DG1, DRG, GT1 and IN1 segments. Specification Errata Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV v2.xml Example Messages XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This is an informative document that proposes privacy and security policy relevant data to be exchanged among application system via an audit message. It is meant to supplement existing system-specific security audit with healthcare appli... Informative Specification Errata Security and Privacy Stable Universal Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The purpose of this Quick Start Guide is to aid implementers in developing application that produce simple CDA documents. Informative Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "V2.6 IG: Blood Bank Donation Services, R1" The HL7 Blood Bank Donation Services Implementation Guide U.S. Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission of information between system application component in a Blood Bank setti... Informative 2012-01-26 Laboratory Stable US Realm Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "EHR-S Pharmacist/Pharmacy Provider Functional Profile, R1",Rx FP The Pharmacist/Pharmacy Provider Functional Profile will facilitate EHR system capture of medication and clinical related data at the point of contact or point of care by specifying the functional requirement needed to support messa... Normative 2012-03-16 Functional Profile Pharmacy Stable Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTSAFETY "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report, Part 1: the framework for adverse event reporting, Release 2",ICSR HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report ha two parts: Part 1: The Framework for Adverse Event Reporting, R2 ha been published by ANSI a ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP1, R2-2... Normative 2012-01-31 ANSI-approved Public Health Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTSAFETY "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report, Part 2: Human pharmaceutical reporting requirement for ICSR, Release 2",ICSR HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report ha two parts: Part 1: The Framework for Adverse Event Reporting, R2 ha been published by ANSI a ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP1, R2-2... Normative 2012-01-31 ANSI-approved Public Health Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "ISO/HL7 10781 EHR-System Functional Model, R1.1",EHR FM,EHR-S FM,EHRS FM,FM,EHRS-FM The Electronic Health Record System Function Model Release 2 build on Release 1.1 of the model, offering a more comprehensive set of function and criteria. The work is informed by industry advances/directions, regul... Normative 2014-04-21 ANSI-approved, Functional Profile Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS vMR for CDS,vMR-CDS A Virtual Medical Record (vMR) is a data model for representing the data that are analyzed and/or produced by clinical decision support (CDS) engines. The goal of this project is to define HL7 vMR ... Informative 2012-04-09 ANSI-registered Technical Report, Domain Analysis Model Decision Support Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "V3 GELLO IG: CDS Model Definition Language for GELLO, R1","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Virtual Medical Record for Clincial Decision Support (vMR-CDS) for GELLO, Release 1",vMR-CDS for GELLO,VMR_GELLO A Model Definition Language for Clinical Decision Support (CDS) is a grammar for representing clinical information input and output that can be used by CDS engine and local clinical information systems. This model defin... Normative 2017-04-17 Decision Support Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Hosp,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE HL7 Detailed Clinical Models,DCM These first two Detailed Clinical Models (DCM) follow a generic UML format for the data element, datatype and code binding specifications, together with meta information (author, version, etc.) and medical knowledge. Of the original group of 5,... Informative 2013-01-10 Patient Care Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Healthcare Institutions, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "V3: Transport Specification - ebXML Using ebMS 2.0, R1",ebXML for ebMS The purpose of the ebXML message wrapper is to provide a secure, flexible transport for exchanging HL7 message and other content, and potentially other message formats, between message handling interface or ebXML Message Service Handl... Normative 2012-05-31 ANSI-approved, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Universal Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 2: XML Encoding Syntax, R2","XML Encoding Rules for Version 2 Messages, Release 2",version 2 xml encoding, xml its,"version 2" xml The objective of this document is to present alternate encoding rule for HL7 Version 2.3.1 to 2.7 message (and a mechanism for determining alternate encoding rule for subsequent HL7 2.x versions) based on the Extensible Markup Language XML t... Normative 2017-12-17 ANSI-approved, Encoding Syntax Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR,wg=PHER "EHR-S Public Health Functional Profile, R2","EHR-S Public Health Functional Profile, R1.1","EHR-S Public Health Functional Profile, R1",FP, PHFP This HL7 Electronic Health Record System Public Health Functional Profile (PHFP) identifies functional requirement and conformance criterion for public health clinical information collection, mana... Informative 2015-04-19 , ANSI-registered Technical Report, Functional Profile Community-Based Health, Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Care, Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: S&I Framework Lab Results Interface, R1 - US",S&I Framework, laboratory results, LRI,Laboratory Results Interface This guide provides guidance on how to communicate laboratory result in general from a (reference) Laboratorys LIS to a system interested in lab results, e.g., EHR, Public Health, other Laboratory. It cover general lab resul... STU 2012-07-16 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Laboratory, Patient Care, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "Reaffirmation of HL7 CDA R2 IG: Privacy Consent Directives, R1","HL7 IG for CDAR2: Consent Directives, Release 1",Privacy Consent, Authorization to Disclose,CDA Consent Directive This is a structured document specification to exchange signed Consent Directives. This specification will make use of the concept identified in the Composite Privacy Consent Directive - Domain Analysis Model - and the CDA R2 speci... Normative 2021-12-09 Community-Based Health, Medical Records, Security and Privacy Stable Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=HHSFR,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 V3 IG: Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Service-Oriented Architecture Implementation Guide, R1" This implementation guide provides a service-oriented (SOA) specification for the Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) Standard. The specification is based on the RESTful (Representational State Transfer) software archi... Normative Services Decision Support, HHSFR Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI HL7 CDA R2 IG: Quality Reporting Document Architecture Category III (QRDA III), "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Quality Reporting Document Architecture, Release 1", QRDA, QRDA III, QRDA Category III, Measure Report A QRDA CategoryIII report is an aggregate quality report. Each report contains calculated summary data for one or more measure for a specified population of patient within a particular health system over a specific period of time.... Normative, STU 2021-09-13 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Decision Support, Regulated Products Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "V3 Order Set Publication, R1",Order Sets Order set can organize and structure complex health care plan into useful unit of work for clinicians. An order within an order set can request any clinical activity including referral (requests for encounters), acts, suppl... DSTU 2013-10-31 Care Provision, Decision Support, Patient Care Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "Reaffirmation of V3 DAM: Diet and Nutrition Orders, Release 2","V3 DAM: Diet and Nutrition Orders, R2","V3 DAM: Diet and Nutrition Orders, R1",V3 DAM Nutrition Orders,Diet Order DAM, Nutrition DAM Standards for the electronic transmission and exchange of nutrition order including information on oral diets, enteral nutrition (tube feeding and infant formula) and oral nutritional supplements, along with food allergies, food intol... Informative, Normative 2022-08-02 Domain Analysis Model Nutrition Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification for RIM Serializations, Release 1" ITS R2 us the ISO datatypes, which were designed in tandem with ITS R2. ITS R2 is required to fully utilize the ISO datatypes. This guide is broken into two parts, the ISO datatypes guide, whic... Informative Data Types Stable Health Care IT Vendors Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 V3 IG: Canonical Pedigree (Family History) Interoperability, R1" The HL7 Clinical Genomics Family Health History (Pedigree) Model is a data standard for capturing,within a system, and transmitting family history between systems. This includes describing a patient full pedigree (family and f... Informative 2013-04-08 Clinical Genomics, Clinical Statement, Decision Support, Laboratory, Medical Records Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3: EMS Domain Information Model, R1",EMS The standard is a Domain Information Model (DIM) specific to emergency medical service in the pre-hospital setting. The DIM is balloted a an informative document to be used a a reference in s... Informative 2013-05-16 Standard Reference Materials Decision Support, Patient Care Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=GAS,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Preoperative Anesthesiology, R1" The purpose of the Preoperative Anesthesiology Domain Analysis Model is to support the exchange and understanding of anesthesiology data by establishing standard definition and value for common anesthesiology data elements. The f... Informative 2013-05-16 , Domain Analysis Model Decision Support, Patient Care Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 XML ITS Structures R2,"HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification, Release 2",XML ITS The objective of this document is to present an Implementable Technology Specification (ITS) for the encoding rule for HL7 Version 3 message based on the Extensible Markup Language XML. ... Normative 2018-04-20 Encoding Syntax Stable Health Care IT Vendors Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Section=10,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Attachment Specification: Supplement to Consolidated CDA Templated Guide, Release 1",Consolidated CDA,C-CDA,CCDA This informative standard is intended to provide guidance in implementing the C-CDA for attachment purposes, including but not limited to claims/encounters, referrals, prior-authorizations, post-adjudicated claim audit... Informative 2013-06-07 , Attachments Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "V3 DAM: Behavioral Health, R2","V3 DAM: Summary Behavioral Health Record, R1",BHA,BHA DAM The Behavioral Health Domain Analysis project is evaluating the currency and comprehensiveness of Health Level 7 (HL7) Behavioral Health and Social Service standard against emergent requirement in the United States (U.S.... Informative 2016-03-14 Domain Analysis Model Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Financial Management, Patient Care, Security and Privacy Stable Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3: Blood, Tissue, Organ; Donation, Release 1",V3 BTO The HL7 Blood Bank v3 Standard Universal Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission of information between system application component in a Blood Bank setting. While... DSTU 2013-08-09 Laboratory Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Patient Administration; Patient Registry, Release 1",PA The Patient topic defines message exchanged with Patient Registries. The Patient information model is not limited to persons; any type of living subject can be registered a a patient. The model includes full information about the l... Normative 2014-12-12 Patient Administration Stable Healthcare Institutions, Payors Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "V3 DAM: Pressure Ulcer Prevention, R1", This Domain Analysis Model represents information used in assessing pressure ulcer risk, including existing pressure ulcers. Terminology concept are modeled explicitly. This model also includes preliminary work on pressure ulcer inter... Informative 2013-08-29 ANSI-registered Technical Report Care Provision Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 V2 IG: Body Mass Index Reporting, R1",HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Body Mass Index Reports, Release 1 - US Realm This document describes profile constraint on the HL7 V2.5.1 ORU^R01 Unsolicited Observation Message to meet the requirement of the transmission of height and weight data for calculating a patient body mass index (BMI)... Informative 2013-08-27 ANSI-registered Technical Report Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Type=STU,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Orders; Diet and Nutrition, R1",V3 Diet & Nutrition Orders; V3 Nutrition Orders Clinical Messages; V3 Nutrition Orders The HL7 v3 Nutrition Orders Standard Universal Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission and exchange of nutrition order including oral diets, enteral nutrition (tube feedi... Informative, STU 2020-11-09 Care Provision, Nutrition, Patient Care Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM Reaffirmation of V3 Abstract Transport R1,"V3: Abstract Transport Specification, R1",Abstract Transport,ATS The Abstract Transport Specification provides model and mechanism for plug and play interoperability. Within that goal, the HL7 standard defines static and dynamic model for the information exchange that refer to the application layer... Normative 2018-05-31 Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Universal Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.7.1 XML Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EMERGENCYCARE "HL7 V3 Specification: Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems (DEEDS), R1",DEEDS, Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems This document expands the scope and update the original Center for Disease Control Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems. This comprehensive set of data element will serve a the content for the interchange format described above... Informative 2013-10-29 ANSI-registered Technical Report, Data Types Terminology Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=TEMPLATE,wg=TOOLING "HL7 Templates Registry Business Process Requirements Analysis, R1",Template Registry, Registry, Template Many group are creating many type of template independently and there is a need to discover what template are available, how they are represented, what their approval state is and how they can be accessed and used.The Templ... Informative 2013-12-23 , , ANSI-registered Technical Report, Standard Reference Materials, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Decision Support, Terminology Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V3 SAIF Conceptual Specification: Laboratory Orders, R1", This document provides the SAIF artifact that are relevant for the conceptual modeling, comparable to the Domain Analysis Model according to old methodology. The specification provides the foun... DSTU 2019-11-14 Domain Analysis Model Laboratory Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: HIV/AIDS Data Set Report, R1", This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body for an HIV/AIDS service report. The primary use case for this guide is the Ryan Whit... Informative 2013-12-24 Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=14,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=SOA "HL7 IG: Decision Support Service, Release 1",DSS IG R1 A Decision Support Service take in patient data a the input and provides back patient-specific assessment and recommendations. A Decision Support Service (DSS) facilitates the implementation of clinical decis... DSTU 2022-11-15 , Implementation Guide, Services Clinical Quality, Decision Support Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Structured Form Definition Document, R1",Questionnaire, Survey, PROM The purpose of a Questionnaire Form Definition document is to capture the health survey question or question set to be administered to a patient. Questionnaire Form Definition document enable the definition of quest... 2022-02-10 Decision Support, Patient Care Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Questionnaire Response Document, R1",Questionnaire, Survey, PROM The purpose of a Questionnaire Response document is to capture the health survey answer or answer set to question that have been administered to a patient. Questionnaire Response document enable the capture of response for surve... DSTU 2022-02-10 Decision Support, Patient Care Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 IG: Clinical Decision Support Knowledge Artifact Implementations, R1",CDS KA IG R1,CDS, CDS Knowledge Artifact Specification, CDS KAS, HeD Schema The Clinical Decision Support (CDS) Knowledge Artifact Specification provides guidance on how to specify and implement shareable CDS knowledge artifact using XML. The scope of the specification includes event-condition-action rules... DSTU 2020-05-30 Decision Support Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=DSTU,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ITS "HL7 IG: XML Implementation for Virtual Medical Record, R1",,vMR, vMR-CDS XML Specification R1 The vMR is a data model for representing the data that are analyzed and/or produced by CDS engines. The term vMR ha historically been used in the CDS community to refer to a simplified repr... DSTU, Informative 2017-12-13 , Decision Support Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Devices,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.6 IG: Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) Messaging, R1",EHDI, hearing screening, newborn screening Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) program exist world-wide to help identify child with hearing loss. Because newborn hearing loss is a neuro-developmental emergency, child with hearing loss need to be identified short... DSTU, Normative 2020-10-01 Implementation Guide Decision Support, Healthcare Devices, Public Health Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 Healthcare Privacy and Security Classification System, R1", HCS International standard document describing the use of a Healthcare Privacy and Security Classification System (HCS) suitable for automated labeling and segmentation of protected health care info... Normative 2014-08-08 Security and Privacy, Terminology Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Section=22,Family=EHR,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "HL7 EHR-S IG: Phamacist/Pharmacy Provider Functional Profile for Community Practice, R1",Pharmacy EHR Companion Guide;,Pharmacist/Pharmacy EHR IG for Community Practice The document provides guidance on applying the Pharmacy/Pharmacist EHR Functional Profile, R1, specifically to the community pharmacy practice setting. Informative 2015-09-21 Functional Profile Pharmacy Stable EHR, PHR Vendors Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 V3 Security and Privacy Ontology, R1",Security and Privacy Ontology, SPO,V3 The HL7 Security and Privacy Ontology serf to name, define, formally describe, and interrelate key security and privacy concept within the scope of Healthcare Information Technology, including security policies, privacy polic... Normative 2014-05-30 Security and Privacy Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=SECURE "HL7 V3 IG: Data Segmentation for Privacy (DS4P), Release 1",DS4P The Office of the National Coordinator DS4P Implementation Guide (IG) will provide the core input into the HL7 DS4P IG project. The project scope is the publication of a U.S. realm DS4P normative specification a an exemplar for an IG that ... Normative 2014-05-13 , Implementation Guide Security and Privacy Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "Reaffirmation of V3: XML ITS - Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types, R1","V3 XML ITS Wire Frame Compatible R1 Data Types, R1",Data Types R2B,XML ITS,R2B changed to retired for 10 year inactivity by KVH and LL 9/21/2022 This is the Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types (XML ITS R2B) for datatypes. It implement a subset of the Abstract Data Types R2 with a wire format that is mostly backwards compatible with ITS R1. Note, however, that while the w... Normative 2019-08-09 Data Types, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Active Health Care IT Vendors Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "Reaffirm V3: XML ITS - V3 Structures for Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types, Release 1","V3 XML ITS V3 Structures for Wire Frame Compatible R1 Data Types, R1",r2b,XML ITS The ITS Structures for Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types specification, referred to a R2b, intends to be mostly wire-backwards-compatible to existing ITS Structures R1.1 but conformant (directly or indir... Normative 2019-08-09 ANSI-approved, Data Types, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Health Care IT Vendors Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 DAM: Harmonization of Health Quality Artifact Reasoning and Expression Logic, R1",Expression Logic Harmonization, This document seek to define the common concept and semantics involved in modeling reasoning within the various aspect of the health quality domain, with the goal of providing a common conceptual foundation that other speci... Informative 2014-05-06 Domain Analysis Model Decision Support Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Security Labeling Service, Release 1",SLS Specify interoperable Security Labeling functional capability that are exposed through well-defined, technology agnostic service interfaces. Functional capability will likely include the following component service and infra... Normative 2014-06-20 Services Security and Privacy, Terminology Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Exchange of Trauma Data, R1", This domain analysis model represents data element used in trauma registries. It is based on the registry element defined by the American College of Surgeonsin collaboration with 20 othe... Informative 2014-07-23 Domain Analysis Model Stable Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLINGENOMICS "V2 IG: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Cytogenetics Model, R1","HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders and Observations; Interoperable Laboratory Result Reporting to EHR, Release 1",,OO,CG The HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; fully LOINC-Qualified Cytogenetic Model, Release 1 - US Realm detail structuring cytogenetics test result into the electronic health record utilizing HL7 version 2.5.1... 2014-07-23 Clinical Genomics, Laboratory Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.6 IG: Newborn Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects (CCHD), R1",CCHD, CCHD screening result Many seemingly healthy baby with Critical Congenital Heart Disease (CCHD) may suffer negative health outcome if the birth defect is not identified shortly after birth. International effort have precipitated both program and legis... Normative 2020-08-03 Implementation Guide Healthcare Devices, Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Major Depressive Disorders, R1",MDD DAM These data element were developed from data submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in marketing application for drug to treat Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). They are meant to supp... 2014-10-12 Domain Analysis Model Care Provision, Decision Support, Patient Care, Public Health, Regulated Studies Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "EHR-S ePrescribing Functional Profile, R1",ePrescribing,electronic prescribing, e-prescribing Prescribers and pharmacy (pharmacists) for several year have been communicating electronic prescription information using the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP) SCRIPT standard. In July of 2004, sixteen parti... Informative 2014-08-18 Functional Profile Care Provision, Patient Care, Pharmacy Stable Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "EHR-S Electronic Nutrition Care Process Record System (ENCPRS) Functional Profile, R1",Nutrition, patient care, diet, dietary,ENCPRS,nutrition profile, nutrition functional profile The Electronic Nutrition Care Process Record System (ENCPRS) Functional Profile is based on the Electronic Health Record System Functional Model R2 (EHRS-FM). The intent is to develop a standard list... Normative 2020-10-15 Functional Profile Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Patient Care, Pharmacy, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=ARDEN,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=15,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN "Reaffirm Health Level Seven Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems, Version 2.10",Arden Syntax V2.10, The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems Version 2.10 is the latest version of a formalism for clinical knowledge representation that can be used by clinicians, knowledge engineers, administrator and others to implement clinical decis... Normative 2019-08-09 ANSI-approved Decision Support Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Schizophrenia, R1",Schizophrenia Domain Analysis, Schizophrenia DAM These data element were developed from data submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in marketing application for drug to treat Schizophrenia.. They are meant to support the collection of data during a patient encounter withi... Informative 2014-10-26 ANSI-registered Technical Report, Domain Analysis Model Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Medical Records, Public Health, Regulated Products, Regulated Studies, Terminology Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG: S&I Framework Transitions of Care Companion Guide to Consolidated-CDA for MU Stage 2, R1",C-CDA Companion Guide The Companion Guide to Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) for Meaningful Use Stage 2 provides supplemental guidance to the HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Integrating Health Enterprise (IHE) Health Story Conso... Informative 2014-10-20 Clinical Statement, HHSFR, Patient Care, Patient Referral Stable Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Medical Imaging Service Providers US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=DSTU,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Digital Signatures and Delegation of Rights, Release 1",CDA Digital Signature Implementation Guide The Digital Signature and Delegation of Rights Implementation Guides provide a standardized method of applying Digital Signatures to CDA documents. The standard provides for multiple signers, signer declaration of their... DSTU 2014-11-06 Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Security and Privacy Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration; Person Registry Enhancement, Release 1",Patient Administration, Person and Patient Registry,PA The Person topic defines message exchanged with Person Registries. The Person information model defines common identifying and demographic data element that might be collected for person regardless of the role they play. The model... Normative 2015-01-16 Patient Administration Stable Health Care IT Vendors Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CQI "HL7 Domain Analysis Model: Health Quality, Release 1", This specification defines a conceptual model for health data for use in the health quality domain. It harmonizes the requirement for patient data use in quality measurement and clinical decision-support enabling a single model to be... Informative 2014-11-07 Domain Analysis Model Decision Support Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESSUPG,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Upgrade Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER,wg=CQI "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Central Cancer Registries, Release 1",Cancer Registry CDA IG Population-based cancer surveillance is critical in North America for cancer control activity aimed at reducing the morbidity and mortality of cancer, the second leading cause of death in the United States (U.S.) and the leading cause... DSTU 2014-12-17 , , Public Health Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Section=11,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Common Terminology Services (CTS), R2","V3 Common Terminology Services, Release 2",CTS2, CTS 2,CTS The goal of CTS2 is to provide a standardized interface for the use and management of terminologies. CTS2 provides a modular, common, and universally deployable set of behavior which can be used to manage set of termi... Normative 2022-01-18 Services Terminology Stable Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 IG for CDA R2: National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS), R1",NHCS, NAMCS, NHAMCS This standard is an HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Implementation Guide for representing data extracted from provider system a required by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Stati... DSTU, STU 2022-01-06 , Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SOA "HL7 Version 3 Specification: Unified Communication Service Interface, R1",UCS The Unified Communication Service complement existing SOA service by providing a Service Functional Model (SFM) for delivering alerts, recommendations, and other notification using a variety of transport mechanism including email... DSTU, Normative 2019-08-23 Domain Analysis Model, Services Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ORDERS,wg=SOA "HL7 Version 3 Specification: Ordering Service Interface, Release 1",Order Service The Ordering Service is intended to complement existing SOA service and the SAIF Behavioral Framework (BF) for HL7. It will provide a Service Functional Model (SFM) for ordering pharmacy, laboratory, radiology, consult and nutri... DSTU, Informative 2021-05-11 , , Services Care Provision, Laboratory, Nutrition, Patient Care Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SOA "HL7 Version 3 Specification: Event Publish & Subscribe Service Interface, R1",Healthcare Event Pub Sub, Event Subscription and Notification Service The Event Publish and Subscribe Service complement existing HL7 SOA service by providing a Service Functional Model (SFM) for services, component and system to subscribe to clinical event of interest and receive notice when new data ... DSTU, Normative 2019-08-23 Domain Analysis Model, Services Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CQI "HL7 Specification: Clinical Quality Common Metadata, Release 1",Clinical Quality Common Metadata Conceptual Model The purpose of this specification is to identify a common model that shall be used to derive and implement metadata information in D-MIMs and Logical Models in a consistent manner for any HL7 specification impacting initi... Informative 2015-02-10 Patient Care, Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Topic=Devices,Section=14,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HEALTHCAREDEVICES "V3 DAM: Detailed Clinical Models for Medical Devices, R1",Medical Device Interoperability, Detailed Clinical Models, Information Analysis, Domain Analysis Model, DCM4MD,DCM The objective of this specification are to use a Domain Analysis Model (DAM) in order to specify reusable Detailed Clinical Models (DCM) to describe the information exchanged by medical device with information systems. The DCMs are provi... Informative 2015-03-13 ANSI-registered Technical Report, Domain Analysis Model Healthcare Devices, Patient Care Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Healthcare Institutions Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Specification Errata Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Central Cancer Registries, Release 1",Cancer Registry CDA IG Population-based cancer surveillance is critical in North America for cancer control activity aimed at reducing the morbidity and mortality of cancer, the second leading cause of death in the United States (U.S.) and the leading cause... DSTU 2014-12-17 , Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V3 Standard: Care Provision; Food and Medication Preferences, Release 1",Nutrition and Drug Preferences The HL7 v3 Care Provision Nutrition and Drug Preferences is a messaging specification intended to support and standardize the exchange of patient and resident preference related to food... Informative 2020-11-03 Care Provision, Nutrition, Patient Care Stable Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Family=Cross-paradigm,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ITS "HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Quality Expression Lanaguage, R1","Clinical Quality Language",CQL Clinical Quality Language (CQL) is a high-level, domain-specific language focused on clinical quality improvement and targeted at measure and decision support artifact author and implementers. ... Normative 2020-12-01 , Clinical Quality, Decision Support Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS HL7 Version 2.8.2,V282,V2.8.2 HL7 Version 2.8.2 represents HL7s latest development effort to the line of Version 2 Standards that date back to 1989. HL7 Version 2.8.2 is deemed necessary to support: Normative 2015-09-04 ANSI-approved Patient Care Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Decision Support,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=14,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI V3IG: CQL-based HQMF R1,V3IG: CQL-based HQMF This Implementation Guide (IG) defines an approach to using the Clinical Quality Language (CQL) with the Quality Data Model (QDM) and Health Quality Measures Format (HQMF) to define electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs). The IG de... STU 2015-09-01 Implementation Guide, Methodology Specifications Clinical Quality, Decision Support, Patient Care, Pharmacy, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.8.1 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.8 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EHR "HL7 EHR-S Meaningful Use Certification Criteria FP, Release 1",MU FP The HL7 Meaningful Use Functional Profile (MU FP) conforms to the HL7 EHR-S FM Release 2.0 and identifies functional requirement and conformance criterion corresponding to US Meaningful Use Stage 1 and 2 certification crite... Informative 2015-09-10 Functional Profile Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Patient-Friendly Consent Directives, Release 1",Patient Friendly Language for Security and Privacy, PFL, The Patient Friendly Language for Consumer User Interfaces IG is sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and is a result of a focused effort to provide a plain language healthcare vocabulary for patient comprehension. This ... Informative 2015-10-14 Standard Reference Materials Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Patient Care, Security and Privacy, Terminology Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Topic=Terminology,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER LOI, LRI HL7 ha developed multiple Implementation Guides (IGs) for the laboratory domain, supporting US Realm requirements. These IGs cover a broad spectrum of interoperability; in order to harmonize vocabulary requirement across the IGs, HL7 O... DSTU, STU 2021-12-15 , Implementation Guide Care Provision, Laboratory, Patient Care, Public Health, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Medication Therapy Management (MTM) Templates, R1",MTM CMR Take-away document; MTM CMS document,CDAR2,MTM This two volume guide support the documentation and communication need of the expanding Medication Therapy Management (MTM) service arena and the CMS Medicare Part D reporting and patient information requirement for MTM. ... Informative 2015-10-28 Pharmacy Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=DSS,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR() Profile: Quality, R1",QICore,QRDA Data Sharing User Guide, qi-core, qicore The QI Core Implementation Guide defines a set of FHIR profile with extension and binding needed to create interoperable, quality-focused applications. The profile in this implementation guid... STU 2022-01-18 , Clinical Quality, Decision Support Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 2 - US Realm",HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocab... Normative 2015-11-16 Public Health Stable Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=DSTU,Topic=Community-Based Health,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SECURE "HL7 IG for CDA() Release 2: Conveying Provenance Data, R1",DPROV, Data Provenance The Implementation Guide for CDA (R) Release 2: Data Provenance, Release 1, September 2014 is the result of collaborative effort between HL7 and the US Health and Human Services Office of National Coordinators Standards and Inter... DSTU 2015-12-15 Community-Based Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EMERGENCYCARE "V3 DAM: Emergency Care, R1",EC DAM The Emergency Care Domain Analysis Model includes a standardized model of Emergency Department (ED) care process for use by ED stakeholders, and a informative material for health care domain that interact with the ED. The EC DA... Informative 2016-01-29 Domain Analysis Model Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=24,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ARB HL7 Business Architecture Model (BAM) Phase 1: Product Planning,BAM,Business Architecture Model, The purpose of the HL7 Business Architecture Model document (BAM) and associated diagram is to collectively describe a 'goal state' business architecture model (BAM) for HL7 with an init... Informative 2016-02-08 Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE CDA R2 IG HAIRPT R3,HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocab... Normative, STU 2020-12-02 Implementation Guide Public Health Stable Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER,wg=ASD "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA: R2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Birth Defects Registries, R1",,Birth Defects Registry Document,Birth Defect More than 40 US state have population based birth defect surveillance programs. Many have mandated requirement for health care professional to report to the surveillance program. However, to-date a standard for elect... DSTU 2016-03-16 , , Public Health Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM "V3 Transmission Infrastructure, R2",Transmission Infrastructure, Wrappers, "Control Act, Query and Transmission, R1.1" The Health Level Seven (HL7) Standard applies to the electronic exchange of data in all healthcare environments. Within the context of healthcare messaging, the HL7 standard is primarily concerned with the data content of excha... Normative 2016-08-05 Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Family=V2,Product_Type=ACCESS,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Access Stable Universal Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Family=EHR,Topic=LABORATORY,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 EHR-S IG: S&I Framework Laboratory Results Interface (LRI) Functional Requirements, R1",EHR-S FR for LRI, Functional Requirements for LRI This document ha been developed through the HHS/ONC Standards and Interoperability (S&I) Framework EHR-S Functional Requirements IG-Labs Work Group. This work is part of a larger effort, the ... STU 2016-05-25 Functional Profile Laboratory Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDA R2 IG: Personal Advance Care Plan, R1",Personal Advance Care Plan, Personal Advance Care Plan Document, PACP, PACP Document The PACP document is a CDA document template designed to share advance directive information created by an individual to express his or her personal health goal and priorities, treatment intervention preference under certain health scena... STU 2016-07-01 Care Provision, Clinical Quality, Decision Support, Medical Records, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "V3 DAM: Care Plan, R1",CP DAM, Care Plan DAM This project encompasses several year of discussion and work within the HL7 Patient Care Work Group in collaboration with several other team to produce artifact defining requirements, information models, contextual storyboards and defin... Informative 2016-06-15 Domain Analysis Model Cardiology, Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Reporting, R2",Electronic Initial Case Report, eICR,CASERPT The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for electronic submission of electronic initial public health case report using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format. This imple... STU 2022-07-20 , Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MNM,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Specification: Characteristics of a Value Set Definition, Release 1",VSD,Value Set Definition This document describes the data element that formally define and characterize (describe) how to create an HL7 conformant value set. These include: the metadata used to identify and define a va... Normative 2019-03-01 , Standard Reference Materials Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Emergency Medical Services; Patient Care Report, R3 - US Realm", Patient Care Report, Run Report This implementation guide support the provision of emergency medical service data from provider agency to hospital emergency department using the CDA standard. The clinical specification were developed by the National EMS Infor... Normative 2023-04-10 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Emergency Management, Patient Care, Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors US Realm Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=13,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.7.1 IG: Message Transformations with OASIS Tracking of Emergency Patients (TEP), R1",TEP/ADT Transformation, ADT/TEP Transformation The scope of this project wa to write a specification that can be used to develop transforms of the OASIS Emergency Data eXchange Language (EDXL) TEP 1.1 data that properly map to the appropriate HL7 v2.7.1 message used in the healt... Informative 2016-07-14 Emergency Management, Patient Administration, Public Health Stable Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health Universal Section=24,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PSC "Introducing New Processes to HL7, R1", This document defines the approval and adoption methodology for non-standards process artifacts; it wa developed by Project Services but commissioned by the Technical Steering Committee (TSC). HL7 ha a well-defined metho... Informative 2016-08-16 Methodology Specifications Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE Health Concerns Healthcare delivery is becoming more complex. Patients, especially those with complex health issues, are treated by multi-disciplinary team of provider across care settings. Institutions may specialize in one clinical area or su... Informative 2015-07-19 Domain Analysis Model Care Provision, Clinical Statement, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors Universal Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.8.2 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... XML Schemas Stable Universal Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 Domain Information Model: Clinical Genomics, Release 1",CG DAM,CG DIM This document develops a domain analysis model for various use case in clinical genomics with an emphasis on clinical sequencing. The model describes and outline a multitude of use case and scenario in which clinical sequencing testing is cu... Informative 2022-04-05 Domain Analysis Model Clinical Genomics Stable Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Terminology,Type=STU,Product_Type=Structures,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDAR2 IG:CCDA R1 Companion Guide, R2","CDAR2 IG:CCDA R1 Companion Guide, R1",C-CDA Companion Guide,C-CDA 2.1 Companion Guide,Companion Guide; C-CDA Online: A navigation website for C-CDA 2.1 The Companion Guide to Consolidated Clinical Document Archi... STU 2023-05-03 Implementation Guide, Structures Patient Care, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Topic=Devices,Type=STU,Topic=Emergency Management,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: Structured Data Capture (SDC), R3","HL7 FHIR IG: Structured Data Capture (SDC), Release 1",,SDC This implementation guide is intended to support clinical system in the creation and population of form in the healthcare domain. It refines and expands the content in the base FHIR specification to provide additional guidance on:&n... STU 2022-03-08 Implementation Guide Attachments, Cardiology, Care Provision, Clinical Genomics, Clinical Quality, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Emergency Management, Financial Management, Healthcare Devices, Laboratory, Materials Management, Medical Records, Nutrition, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Personnel Management, Pharmacy, Public Health, Regulated Products, Regulated Studies, Scheduling, Security and Privacy, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=SCHEDULING,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 V3 Standard: SOA Care Coordination Service, R1",CCS,CCS for Care Plan This project encompasses several year of discussion and work within the HL7 Patient Care Work Group in collaboration with the SOA Work Group and Clinical Decision Support Work Group. The scope of this specification is to defin... STU 2018-03-20 Domain Analysis Model, Functional Profile, Services, Standard Reference Materials, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Cardiology, Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy, Scheduling Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Patient Summary Relevant and Pertinent (RnP) Data, Release 1",Relevant and Pertinent,RnP This guide is primarily focused on improving the relevance and pertinence of C-CDA document a experienced by the clinician, which mean a displayed or rendered. Other guides, incl... Informative 2017-04-13 Care Provision, Patient Care, Patient Referral Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Stable Universal Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS,wg=CLINICALSTATEMENTS "Reaffirmation of V3: Clinical Statement Pattern, R1","V3: Clinical Statement Pattern, R1", The Clinical Statement model is designed to be used within multiple HL7 Version 3 domain models. Clinical Statement is intended to facilitate the consistent design of communication that convey clinical information to meet specific use c... Normative 2019-08-09 , Clinical Statement Stable Universal Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Topic=Decision Support,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "HL7 Neutral Mapping Notation, Release 1",FHIRPath, FluentPath,FluentPath/CQL FHIRPath is a path based navigation and extraction language, somewhat like XPath. Operations are expressed in term of the logical content of hierarchical data models, and support traversal, selection and filtering of data. Its desig... Normative 2020-01-16 Methodology Specifications Decision Support Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 SAIF IG: Satisfying Immunization Interoperability Use Cases, R1",,XParadigm This implementation guide will explore the Service-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) methodology to show how various HL7, IHE and OMG immunization-related artifact can be deployed to sati... Informative 2017-08-08 Patient Care, Public Health Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 IG for CDA Release 2: Behavioral Health Assessment, R1",,Behavioral Health Data Exchange IG Behavioral Health EHRs must be capable of exchanging substance abuse and mental health information using all the applicable Meaningful Use standard IGs. Implementers need practical guidance on how to instantiate message and docum... Informative 2017-08-08 Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Patient Care Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ARB,wg=TSC "HL7 Specification: Domain Analysis Model Specifications and Requirements, R1",DAM Definition This document provides the canonical definition of a Domain Analysis Model. The canonical DAM definition is provided for use by architects, designers, and developer of HL7 conformant DAMs. ... Informative 2017-08-16 , Domain Analysis Model, Standard Reference Materials Stable Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 Attachments IG CCDA Exchange, R3",Attachment Supplemental Guide,Supplemental Attachments Guide This implementation guide (Guide) defines the requirement for sending and receiving standards-based electronic attachments. It doe so by applying additional constraint onto standard in common use for clinical documentation and by defin... Informative, STU 2022-03-08 Implementation Guide Attachments Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=11,Family=EHR,Product_Type=TOOLS,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=EHR The Electronic Health Record System Function Model Release 2.0.1 build on Release 2 of the model. R2 offered a more comprehensive set of function and criterion compared to R1.1. The work on R2 is informed by indus... Tools Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 DAM: Vital Records, R4","HL7 DAM: Vital Records, Release 3",HL7 DAM: Vital Records R2,"HL7 DAM: Vital Records","V3 DAM: Vital Records, R1",HL7 DAM: Vital Records,VR, VR DAM,VR DAM R3 The Vital Records Domain Analysis Model (VR DAM) is the authoritative statement of foundational requirement for the design and development of health information exchange standard in Health Level Seven (HL7) related to vital... Informative, STU 2022-05-10 Domain Analysis Model Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 DAM: Common Clinical Registry Framework, R2","HL7 DAM: Common Clinical Registry Framework, R1",Registry DAM,CCRF,Registry, Registries Common Data Elements It is hoped that the registry DAM will serve a foundational material for other HL7 standard work, such a the development of HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) profile and/or implementation guide for common regis... Informative 2020-12-21 Domain Analysis Model Cardiology, Care Provision, Clinical Quality, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Personnel Management, Pharmacy, Public Health Active Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EHR "HL7 EHRS FM CHFP R1 Developmental Screening DFP, R1",,Child Health EHR Developmental Screening Profile,Child Health Functional Profile, Developmental Screening Functional Profile The HL7 Developmental Screening and Reporting Services Derived Profile, Release 1 identifies the critical EHR capability for pediatric Developmental Screening and Reporting services. This standard reference content and funct... Informative 2017-11-29 Functional Profile Care Provision, Patient Care Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Emergency Management,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 FHIR Profile: C-CDA, R1",ccda on fhir,C-CDA on FHIR, CCDA on FHIR Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) is one of the most widely implemented implementation guide for CDA and cover a significant scope of clinical care. Its target of the common/essential elem... STU 2024-03-12 Services Cardiology, Care Provision, Clinical Quality, Clinical Statement, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Emergency Management, Financial Management, Laboratory, Medical Records, Nutrition, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Report R2 RR, R1",RR,Reportability Response The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for a response document for a public health electronic Initial Case Report (HL7 eICR v1.1) using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 forma... STU 2022-07-19 Patient Care, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM V3 SPL R8,Structured Product Labeling R8, SPLR8,SPL SPL release 8 (normative) is a fairly minor extension of the previous release of SPL, that all received extensive use in production, especially the release 1, 3, 4, 5 (DSTU and Normative), 6, and 7. In addition to labeling submi... Normative 2017-02-03 SPL Stable Pharmaceutical Vendors Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Additional Templates (Volume 3) - for Advance Directives Templates,C-CDA Advance Directives Templates,C-CDA Vol3,Advance Directives Templates Advance Directive Templates are important component of the C-CDA standard, yet to date, use of these template in data exchange, sharing and retrieval of patient clinical and care planning information ha been optional. Optional requi... STU 2022-04-29 Implementation Guide Medical Records, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=20,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 DAM: THEMES, R1",THEMES DAM,THEMES The THEMES (Terminology Harmonization in Exercise Medicine and Exercise Science) project will develop a Domain Analysis Model that will address major concept, data elements, and data interoperability barrier that have impeded the use o... Informative 2018-04-11 Domain Analysis Model Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=24,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MOBILE "HL7 MHaFF: Consumer Mobile Health App Functional Framework, R1",cMHAFF The Consumer Mobile Health Application Functional Framework is an HL7 Standard for Trial Use (STU). The primary goal of the Consumer Mobile Health Functional Framework ( cMHAFF ) are to provide a standard against which a mobile app&r... STU 2018-06-26 Functional Profile Security and Privacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CQI "CDA R2 IG: QRDA; Supplemental Use Cases, R1",QRDA Data Sharing User Guide Clinicians who report to quality program have expressed a need to more successfully exchange (both send and receive) data for quality. This both allows provider to ensure that patient care is adhering to quality standard without repea... Informative 2018-07-13 Clinical Quality Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE CDAR2 IG: C-CDA Supplemental Nutrition R1,,AN&D Nutrition Transitions of Care IG,Nutrition Care via C-CDA; Nutrition Transitions of Care IG, Nutrition C-CDA; Nutrition Care Plan This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element that are derived from requirement set forth by the Academy of Nutrition and ... STU 2018-07-23 Care Provision, Nutrition, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=24,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 Allergy and Intolerance Substance Value Set(s) Definition, Release 1",Common Allergy & Intolerance Substance Value Set This document describes a value set for use in identifying substance of concern for patient with allergy and intolerances. The list wa generated by surveying existing record from large syst... Informative 2018-08-27 Care Provision, Terminology Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=Clinical Statement,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 CDA R2 IG : International Patient Summary Template, Release 1",IPS An International Patient Summary (IPS) document is an electronic health record extract containing essential healthcare information intended for use in the unscheduled, cross-border care scenario, comprising at least the required eleme... STU 2018-10-25 Care Provision, Clinical Statement, Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Care, Pharmacy Active Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: SMART App Launch, Release 1",SMART, SMART on FHIR SMART App Launch 2.2.0 defines a foundational pattern based on OAuth 2.0 for client application to authorize, authenticate, and integrate with FHIR-based data system (e.g., Electronic Health Record system, Patient Portal, or Be... STU 2024-04-30 Security and Privacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 FHIR IG: Healthcare Associated Infection Reports, R1",HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining FHIR STU 3. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocabulary expert and FHIR ... STU 2019-10-12 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "Reaffirmation of HL7 Implementation Guide: UDI Pattern, R2",HL7 IG UDI R2,"HL7 XParadigm IG: UDI Pattern, R1",Unique Device Identifier, UDI, Pattern, "HL7 Version 3 Cross Paradigm Implementation Guide: Medical Devices and Unique Device Identification (UDI) Pattern, Release 1" The Unique Device Identifier (UDI) Pattern provides the guideline for exchanging UDI information associated with medical devices, initially implantable device in patients. This document will not give implementation guida... Normative 2024-04-16 Attachments, Cardiology, Care Provision, Clinical Statement, Healthcare Devices, Laboratory, Materials Management, Patient Care, Regulated Products, Regulated Studies, Scheduling Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=13,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM HL7/OASIS Xparadigm IG: EDXL HAVE,HAVE, EDXL-HAVE-v2.0 EDXL-HAVE (HAVE) is an XML messaging standard primarily for exchange of information related to health facility in the context of emergency management. HAVE support sharing information about facility services, bed counts, opera... Informative 2019-01-28 Emergency Management, Patient Administration Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "V2.8.2 IG: Immunization Messaging, R1", This document is a US Realm implementation guide for immunization messaging. The document cover both submission of vaccination event and patient demographic a well a bi-directional query and response.This document is suitable for u... STU 2018-12-10 Public Health Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=1,Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Product_Type=Structures,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIRMG HL7 FHIR R4B,"HL7 FHIR R4 Observation, Release 1","HL7 FHIR R4 Patient, Release 1","HL7 FHIR R4 Terminology & Conformance, Release 1","HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), R1","HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR)",FHIR,FHIR Terminology,FHIR Patient,FHIR Observation FHIR is an interoperability standard intended to facilitate the exchange of healthcare information between healthcare providers, patients, caregivers, payers, researchers, and any one else involved in the healthcare ecosystem. It consi... Normative, STU 2022-05-28 Data Types, Encoding Syntax, Services, Structures, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Care Provision, Clinical Genomics, Clinical Quality, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Financial Management, Laboratory, Materials Management, Medical Records, Nutrition, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Personnel Management, Pharmacy, Public Health, Regulated Products, Regulated Studies, Scheduling, Security and Privacy, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=1,Family=CDA,Type=STU,Section=10,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE C-CDA R2.1, Consolidated CDA Release 2.1,"HL7 IG for CDA R2: Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes, R1","HL7 IG for CDAR2: IHE Health Story Consolidation, R1",Consolidated CDA,C-CDA, C-CDA R2, Consolidated CDA Release 2, CCDA,C-CDA /StructureDefinition Publication, C-CDA Web Publication C-CDA Online: A navigation website for C-CDA 2.1 The Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) implementation guide contains a library of CDA templates, incorporating and harmonizing previous effort from Health Level Seven... STU Active US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Patient Referral,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Pregnancy Status, R1 - US Realm",Pregnancy, Pregnancy Status, C-CDA Pregnancy Status, Supplemental Pregnancy Status,Pregnancy Status IG This implementation guide (IG) provides consistent guidance for capturing key pregnancy status information in healthcare information technology (HIT) product and contains optional supplemental pregnancy status template for curre... STU 2019-01-17 Patient Care, Patient Referral, Public Health Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 Guidance: Electronic Long-Term Services & Supports (eLTSS), R1",eLTSS Informative Document,eLTSS White Paper The purpose of the eLTSS informative document is to inform stakeholder interested in enabling standards-based electronic sharing of Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS) service plans, and more specifically, to guide those devel... Informative 2018-12-05 Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors US Realm Family=CDA,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provi... Normative Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions Universal Topic=Decision Support,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: CDS Hooks; Hook Library, Release 1","HL7 CDS Hooks, R1",,CDS Hooks The CDS Hooks specification describes the RESTful APIs and interaction to integrate Clinical Decision Support (CDS) between CDS Clients (typically Electronic Health Record Systems (EHRs) or other health information syste... STU 2024-03-21 Decision Support Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EHR "HL7 EHR-S FP: Work and Health, R1",,Work and Health Functional Profile The primary purpose of the Work and Health Functional Profile (WHFP) is to expand the capability expressed in the EHR-S FM R2 for managing a patient occupational data for health (as opposed to occupational data ... Informative 2019-04-10 Functional Profile Decision Support, Medical Records, Patient Care, Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=20,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3 DAM: Specimen, R2", This specification is the second release of a Domain Analysis Model for Specimen, documenting the conceptual information requirement for use case provided by Clinical Genomics, Anatomic Pathology and Public Health Laboratories, the harmo... Informative 2019-04-29 Domain Analysis Model Laboratory Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Topic=Devices,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FHIR,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: US-Core, R1 STU4",DAF, Data Access Framework, US-Core, US Core, USCore, USCDI The US Core Implementation Guide (available at http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU6.1) is based onFHIR Version R4and defines the minimum conformance requirement for accessing pati... STU 2023-05-03 , Implementation Guide Healthcare Devices, Laboratory, Patient Care, Pharmacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ITS,wg=SOA "HL7 Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R2 STU1","HL7 Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R1","HL7 V3: Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R1",Health Service Marketplace,HSP,Marketplace The Marketplace API specification serf a a building block for orchestrating the exchange of such service and executable knowledge. Products deployed in an enterprise architecture are constituent building block in a larger infor... STU 2019-10-31 , Services, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Decision Support, Regulated Products, Security and Privacy Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Clinical Statement,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC,wg=ORDERS,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Infectious Disease, R1 - US Realm",C-CDA Supplemental Templates, C-CDA ID,Infectious Diseases, ID, Supplemental Templates for ID, Supplemental Templates for Infectious Diseases This guide defines optional addition to the C-CDA R2.1 Continuity of Care Document (CCD), Transfer Summary, and Discharge Summary standards. These additional template are available for use ... STU 2019-07-10 , , , Care Provision, Clinical Statement, Patient Care, Public Health Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,wg=PHER "HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Syndromic Surveillance, R1 - US Realm",Syndromic Surveillance Message Guide This guide provides: An HL7 implementation and content reference standard for facilitating syndromic surveillance electronic health record technology certification A... STU 2019-07-26 Public Health EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health Section=22,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR flat fhir, bulk, ndjson, export This Implementation Guide defines secure FHIR export Operations that use this capability to provide an authenticated and authorized client with the ability to register a a backend service and retrieve all data in a FHIR server, data on all p... STU 2021-11-25 Implementation Guide Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Public Health, Security and Privacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HSSWG "HL7 FHIR IG: Electronic Long-Term Services & Supports (eLTSS), R1 - US Realm",eltss,eLTSS FHIR IG The electronic Long-Term Services and Supports (eLTSS) Implementation Guide (IG) is based on FHIR R4. It wa developed to support exchange of data generated during the planning and provision of long-term service and support and is cu... STU 2019-09-12 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Patient Care Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 FHIR IG: CG, R1",genomics, genetics, dna, variant,GenomicsReporting IG,Genomics Reporting Implementation Guide, CG IG Genomics is a rapidly evolving area of healthcare that involves complex data structures. There is significant value in sharing this information in a way that is consistent, computable and that can accommodate ongoing evolu... STU 2019-11-21 Implementation Guide Clinical Genomics Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors Universal Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDAR2 IG:CCDA R1 Companion Guide, R1",,C-CDA 2.1 Companion Guide The Companion Guide to Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (C-CDA) provides supplemental guidance to the Health Level Seven (HL7) CDA R2 IG: C-CDA Templates for Clinical Notes STU Release 2.1 in support of the ONC 2015 Editi... Informative 2016-12-02 Implementation Guide Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS,wg=SOA "HL7 Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R1",HSP,Health Service Marketplace This is a vendor-agnostic Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace specification for publication, curation, discovery, and distribution of interoperable service implementations. This specification is completely agnostic to progr... Informative 2019-07-02 , Services, Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Stable Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR IG: Quality Measures, Release 1",FHIR QMIG, FHIR QM,Quality Measures The Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resource (FHIR) Quality Measure Implementation Guide (this IG) describes an approach to representing electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs) using the FHIR Clinical Reasoning Module and C... STU 2023-08-28 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=CCOW,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=INM "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIRCast, R1",FHIRcast The FHIRcast specification describes the APIs used to synchronize disparate healthcare applications' user interface in real time, allowing them to show the same clinical content to a user (or group of users).... STU 2019-12-13 Implementation Guide CCOW, Decision Support, Security and Privacy Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Pharmacy Templates, R1",Pharmacy Templates; Templates; Pharmacy CDA Templates,Pharmacy Universal Templates This Implementation Guide provides CDA R2 template for Medication Order and Medication Statement, Medication Dispense and Medication Administration that can be used by HL7 standard developer and external project to develop model for p... STU 2023-04-20 , Implementation Guide Pharmacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Emergency Management,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE Clinical Document Architecture R2.1,CDA, CDA Release 2.1, CDA R2.1 The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provi... Normative 2019-12-06 Implementation Guide Cardiology, Care Provision, Clinical Genomics, Clinical Quality, Clinical Statement, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Emergency Management, Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=20,Section=24,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PUBLISHING V2 V2.9 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative 2019-12-06 Document, Standard Reference Materials Active Universal Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS,wg=FM,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: PDex Drug Formulary, Release 1 - US Realm",DaVinci PDex Formulary This project defines a FHIR interface to a health insurer's drug formulary information for patients/consumers. A drug formulary is a list of brand-name and generic prescription drug a health insurer agrees to pay for, at least parti... STU 2020-01-21 , , Implementation Guide Financial Management, Pharmacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER ODH This Implementation Guide contains profile to implement support for Occupational Data for Health (ODH). ODH is primarily designed to facilitate clinical care, including population health; ODH also can be used to support public healt... STU 2020-01-13 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Public Health, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "FHIR IG: eCR, R1-US Realm",Electronic Case Report, eCR, Reportability Response, RR, eICR, Electronic Initial Case Report The FHIR Implementation Guide (IG) specifies a US Realm FHIR electronic Case Reporting (eCR) implementation guide. It profile FHIR for electronic initial case report (eICR), Reportability Response and trigger code / business logic... STU 2020-01-29 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR IG: Data Exchange for Quality Measures, R1",DEQM, Data Exchange for Quality Measures The purpose of this implementation guide is to support value based care data exchange in the US Realm. It describes three group of quality reporting scenarios. The first group is exchange scenario which focus on exchanging subset of the data ... STU 2023-10-03 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Decision Support Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "HL7 EHRS-FM R2 Functional Profile: Immunization, R1",IFP,IFP FP The HL7 Immunization Functional Profile (of ISO/HL7 10781 Electronic Health Record System Functional Model) describes functional characteristic and conformance criterion supporting immunization management and admin... Normative 2020-03-17 Functional Profile Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Patient Care, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors Universal Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Type=STU,Product_Type=IG,Current_State=Active,wg=STRUCTURE CCDA ODH,ODH This IG contains guidance, supporting material and new template to implement support for Occupational Data for Health (ODH). ODH is primarily designed to facilitate clinical care, including population health; ODH also can be used to su... STU 2020-01-21 Implementation Guide, Methodology Specifications Patient Care, Public Health Active Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=CIMI,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=CIMI "HL7 CIMI Logical Model: Analysis Normal Form (ANF), Release 1",Analysis Normal Form, ANF, CIMI Logical Model Analysis Normal Form (ANF) is a logical model intended to represent a normalized view of aggregate clinical statement for analysis, research, clinical decision support, and other purposes. ANF can be used to represent any clini... Informative 2020-02-25 Clinical Information Model Clinical Statement Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Bidirectional Services eReferrals (BSeR), Release 1",Referral, BSeR,BSeR FHIR IG The Bidirectional Services eReferral (BSeR) FHIR implementation guide provides guidance for using the HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) standard a an exchange format for clinical and non-clinical service requests. It is a ... STU 2020-03-03 Implementation Guide Patient Care, Patient Referral, Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors US Realm Section=22,Family=ARDEN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=15,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems is a structured, executable formalism for the explicit representation of scientific, clinical, administrative, and other knowledge used in clinical decision support systems. Despite the r... Informative 2020-02-21 Implementation Guide Decision Support Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=22,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 FHIR IG: Minimal Common Oncology Data Elements (mCODE), R1 - US Realm",,mCODE mCODE short for Minimal Common Oncology Data Elementsis an initiative intended to assemble a core set of structured data element for oncology electronic health record (EHR... STU 2023-10-25 Implementation Guide Clinical Genomics, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Product_Type=FM,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=EHR EHRS-FM R2.1,EHR-S FM Incremental update to the EHR System Functional Model (EHR-S FM), encompassing all the EHR function and conformance criterion found in it predecessor Release 2, and incorporating: Normative 2020-06-30 Functional Model Attachments Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=SECURE "V3: Privacy and Security Architecture Framework (PSAF), R1",PSAF The Privacy and Security Architecture Framework (PSAF) is the overarching package that contains four balloted specification and an informative guide. The specific normative component include: 1) Trust Framework for Feder... Normative 2020-07-28 , Document Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=Cross-paradigm,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=17,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS,wg=DSS,wg=FM,wg=CQI "HL7 XParadigm Storyboard: Payer Value-Based Care Perspective, R1 - US Realm",,Payer Perspective Storyboard This HL7 Cross-Paradigm Storyboard Artifact establishes a realistic life situation that demonstrates healthcare information interoperability issue that are important from a Payers perspective and the shift toward value... Informative 2020-05-05 , , , Document Care Provision, Clinical Quality, Patient Care, Patient Referral Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DOC,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=EHR,wg=PATIENTCARE,wg=SECURE,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Guidance: Provenance Basics for C-CDA and FHIR, Release 1 - US Realm",Provenance The Basic Provenance Informative guide provides the functional and technical guidance for communicating Minimum Viable Provenance in CDA, and FHIR, when information is exchanged. ... Informative 2020-06-02 , , , , Document, Implementation Guide Security and Privacy Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Vital Records Mortality and Morbidity Reporting, Release 1",VRDR The VRDR FHIR IG provides guidance regarding the use of FHIR resource a a conduit for data required in the bidirectional exchange of mortality data between State-run Public Health Agencies (PHA) Vital Records office and U.S. Natio... STU 2022-08-31 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=24,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ICTC "V2: Conformance, R1",v2 conformance, message profile HL7 Version 2 Conformance Methodology explains the procedure and process for constraining HL7 v2 message specifications, encompassing both message profile and implementation guide that contain message profi... Normative 2020-09-18 Document, Methodology Specifications, Standard Reference Materials Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=24,Family=CDA,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=SFM,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=Structures,Section=10,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Informative Document: C-CDA Scorecard Rubric, Release 1",C-CDA Scoring Rubric,C-CDA Rubric This informative implementation guide contains rubric criterion created through an ongoing project in the HL7 Structured Documents Work Group (SDWG), originating in 2016. Throughout 2018 a group of HL7 member created a new set of rubri... Informative 2020-05-19 , Data Types, Methodology Specifications, Services, Standard Reference Materials, Structures Terminology Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Payors, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=Clinical Statement,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: International Patient Summary, R1",IPS An International Patient Summary (IPS) document is an electronic health record extract containing essential healthcare information about a subject of care. The IPS dataset is minimal and non-exhaustive; specialty-agnostic and condi... STU 2020-05-19 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Clinical Statement, Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Care, Pharmacy Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 V3 DAM: Security, R1",,V3 DAM The Security and Privacy Domain Analysis Model described in this publication contains a harmonized analysis of the security and privacy system requirement of healthcare organization and their clients. This model is intended to meet these... Informative 2020-05-01 Domain Analysis Model Security and Privacy Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "FHIR IG: Immunization CDS, R1", Clinical Decision Support for Immunizations is increasingly being used in health information system to indicate which vaccination a patient is due for next. Many of these expert system are buil... STU 2021-06-25 Implementation Guide Decision Support, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: Consumer-facing Real-time Pharmacy Benefit Check, R1",RTPBC,Real Time Pharmacy Benefit Check Using RTPBC, a patient can learn how their medication will be covered at the pharmacy, including out of pocket cost and any coverage restriction or requirement that might apply. STU 2020-08-25 Implementation Guide Financial Management, Pharmacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Payors US Realm Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: CDISC Lab Semantics, R1","CDISC SDTM and CDASH mapping to FHIR for laboratory data",CDISC LAB IG FHIR provides an effective standard for site and sponsor to utilize in exchanging clinical research laboratory data. The end-to-end process includes site data storage, site data preparation/transformation, production of FHIR forma... STU 2020-08-27 Implementation Guide Laboratory, Regulated Studies Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Health Care IT Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=EHR HL7 EHR Dental Health Functional Profile,DHFP,Dental FP, Dental Health The DHFP Release 1.01 is based on the HL7 Electronic Health Record System Functional Model and Standard (EHR-S FM) Release 2.01, July 2017. The DHFP is intended to inform software developers, users, purchasers, and other inter... Informative 2020-08-27 Functional Profile Care Provision Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DOC,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 Cross-Paradigm IG: Medical Device Data Sharing, R1", This cross-paradigm Implementation Guide (IG) is intended to support implementers and enable EHRs to exchange standards-based messages, documents, and resource with other EHR system using HL7 Meaningful Use IGs and emerging IGs .... Informative 2020-08-25 Document, Implementation Guide Healthcare Devices Stable EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=22,Product_Type=TOOLS,Type=NORMATIVE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: FHIR Shorthand, R1",FSH FHIR Shorthand (FSH) is a domain-specific language for defining FHIR artifact involved in creation of FHIR Implementation Guides (IG). The goal of FSH is to allow Implementation Guide (IG) crea... Normative, STU 2022-02-11 Implementation Guide, Tools Active Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=INM "HL7 FHIR IG: Alerts, R1",Da Vinci Alerts, Da Vinci Notifications, Da Vinci Unsolicited Notifications, Alerts, Notifications, Unsolicited Notifications, Alerts This implementation guide describes a framework method for the communication of relevant notification to support the real-time exchange of information that impact patient care and value based or risk based services. Providers and Payers may n... STU 2020-10-15 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR Guidance: Quality Reporting, R1", This informative document provides an overview of the electronic quality measurement domain with specific reference to HL7's Clinical Quality Framework. The document further describes the case for using FHIR for quality measu... Informative 2020-10-12 Document Clinical Quality, Decision Support Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=GAS Anesthesia DAM,Intra-operative Anesthesia DAM The document aim to provide a reasonable coverage of intra-procedural anesthesia - it content is intended to represent the content of the conventional anesthesia record and to support it electronic equivalent. It includes behavioral and s... Informative 2020-11-19 Domain Analysis Model Care Provision, Financial Management, Healthcare Devices, Medical Records, Patient Care Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDAR2 IG: NHSN HAI Reports for LTCF, R1 (HAI-LTCF-CDA), R1",HAI LTCF, NHSN HAI LTCF This implementation guide (IG) specifies standard for electronic submission of Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) report to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) of the Centers for ... STU 2024-03-13 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Consumer-Directed Payer Exchange, Release 1",CARIN, CARIN Blue Button, CARIN BB, CDPDE This implementation guide describes the CARIN for Blue Button Framework and Common Payer Consumer Data Set (CPCDS), providing a set of resource that payer can display to consumer via a FHIR API. STU 2020-11-23 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Regulatory Agency US Realm Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: PDex Payer Network, R1 - US Realm",PDex, Plan-Net, Provider Directory This implementation guide defines a FHIR interface to a health insurer insurance plans, their associated networks, and the organization and provider that participate in these networks. Publication of this data through a stand... STU 2020-12-20 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Authorization, Release 1",Prior Authorization, PAS,FHIR IG PAS, R1 The goal of Prior Authorization Support is to define FHIR based service to enable a provider's system, at point of service, to request authorization (including all necessary clinical information to support the request) and recei... STU 2023-11-21 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: ePayer Data Exchange (ePDx), Release 1",PDEX, Payer Data Exchange, Da Vinci PDEX Using Payer Data Exchange enables payer to publish Financial and clinical data to Consumers and other payer using US Core clinical resource and additional profile that are specific to the paye... STU 2024-01-05 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Coverage Requirements Discovery, R1",CRD, Payer requirement Provides a mechanism for healthcare provider to discover guidelines, pre-authorization requirement and other expectation from payor organization related to a proposed medication, procedure or other service assoc... STU 2023-10-20 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors US Realm Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Bipolar and Anxiety Disorder, R1",Bipolar Disorder DAM,GAD DAM The Food and Drug Administration is standardizing mental health data element for Bipolar and General Anxiety disorder for drug authorization submissions. Even though there is some standardization across the industry there are v... Informative 2020-12-22 Domain Analysis Model Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency US Realm Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Bipolar and Anxiety Disorder, R1",Generalized Anxiety DAM, GAD DAM The Food and Drug Administration is standardizing mental health data element for Bipolar and General Anxiety disorder for drug authorization submissions. Even though there is some standardization across the industry there are v... Informative 2020-12-22 Domain Analysis Model Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency US Realm Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=DSS "HL7 FHIR IG: Documentation Templates and Payer Rules (DTR), R1",Documentation Templates and Rules, DTR The Documentation Templates and Rules (DTR) Implementation Guide (IG) specifies how payer rule can be executed in a provider context to ensure that documentation requirement are met. ... STU 2023-11-07 Implementation Guide Decision Support Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors US Realm Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM PCDE, Coverage Transition,PCDex This U.S. implementation guide defines a standardized way for a 'new' payer to access the clinical and financial information held by a previous payer that is necessary to ensure that a member who is switching coverage is able to enjoy... STU 2020-12-23 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active Payors US Realm Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=LHS "HL7 DAM: Patient Centered Care Team, R1",Care Team,Care Coordination,Care Plan,Care Team DAM The Patient-Centered Care Team Domain Analysis Model (DAM) ha been undertaken to create a model that capture the role and relationship of the unique group of individual who provide care for a single patient. Although this group of indiv... Informative 2021-02-11 Domain Analysis Model Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 DAM: Birth Defects, R1",Birth defect reporting DAM,Birth Defect Reporting The Birth Defects Reporting Domain Analysis Model (BDR DAM) is a description of foundational requirement for the design and development of health information exchange standard in Health Level Seven (HL7) related to birth defect repor... Informative 2021-01-25 Domain Analysis Model Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Product_Type=FM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 Cross Paradigm Model Transformation Service, R1",MBTS This Standard provides a platform independent Service Functional Model (SFM) specification for an HL7 model-based bi-directional transformation service with exemplary mapping illustrating typical usage. The scope... STU 2021-02-11 Functional Model, Services Laboratory, Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Public Health, Security and Privacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 FHIR IG: C-CDA R2.1; Pharmacist Care Plan, Release 1 - US Realm",Pharmacist Care Plan, PeCP This implementation guide specifies FHIR profile and other artifact for the Pharmacist Care Plan, which are derived from requirement set forth by the Pharmacy Health Information Technology (HIT) Collaborative and the National Counc... STU 2021-02-11 Implementation Guide Patient Care, Pharmacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Risk Based Contract Member Identification, Release 1 - US Realm",davinci-atr The implementation guide defines the mechanisms, resources, profile and extension required to exchange Member Attribution Lists. The Member Attribution Lists enable provider and payer organization to validate enrollment in Value... STU 2024-01-09 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors US Realm Section=22,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Guidelines, R1",CPG,CPG-on-FHIR The FHIR Clinical Guidelines Implementation Guide (CPG IG) provides a mean of creating a computable representation of a narrative clinical guideline that is faithful to guideline intent and supp... STU 2021-02-11 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Decision Support Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency Universal Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DOC,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Informative Document: Gender Harmony, R1",Gender Harmony, Health care is increasingly turning to technology to help improve system and process to benefit patient and their health. Ongoing effort supported by governing agency and standard committee are responding to the demon... Informative 2021-08-26 Document, White Paper Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 Privacy and Security Logical Data Model, R1", The HL7 Privacy and Security Logical Data Model build upon the Composite Security and Privacy DAM, the Privacy and Security Architecture Framework and other foundational security standard including ISO/IEC 10181-3:1996 Access Contr... Normative 2021-06-10 Document Security and Privacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Pharmacist Care Plan,Pharmacist Care Plan, PeCP This implementation guide specifies constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element for the Pharmacist Care Plan, which are derived from requirement set forth by the Pharmacy Health Infor... STU 2021-06-10 Implementation Guide Patient Care, Pharmacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: Specialty Medication Enrollment, R1 - US Realm",Specialty Medication Enrollment This FHIR implementation Guide describes the exchange of patient demographic, clinical and coverage data to support fulfillment of specialty medication prescription by pharmacies, and enrollment of patient into related support progr... STU 2021-06-21 Implementation Guide Medical Records, Patient Care, Pharmacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors US Realm Section=22,Family=FHIR,Topic=Devices,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=HEALTHCAREDEVICES "FHIR IG: PCD, R1",,DoF-PHD IG This Implementation Guide (IG) defines the use of FHIR resource to convey measurement and supporting data from communicating Personal Health Devices (PHDs) to receiving system for electronic medi... STU 2022-05-12 Implementation Guide Healthcare Devices Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Healthcare Associated Infection Reports, R4 - US Realm",HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. STU 2022-07-29 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency US Realm Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Product_Type=FM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 SFM: Consent Management Service, R1", This Service Functional Model API defines Services and API(s) for Consent Management.Consent Management is commonly addressed in regulation in participating jurisdictions. It is informed by the result of the C... STU 2021-07-13 Functional Model, Services Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: SDOH Clinical Care, R1",SDOH, Social Determinants of Health This IG defines focus on the exchange of information related to social determinates of health (such a Food Insecurity, Housing Instability, and Transportation). The IG defines FHIR Profiles for Observation, Condition, Goals, Task,... STU 2021-08-05 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB Tinkar This specification describes the requirement needed to manage terminology produced by a variety of organization across the healthcare enterprise. The healthcare enterprise need an extensive terminology foundation and the abili... Informative 2021-08-25 White Paper Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: FHIR to CDISC, R1",CDISC CDASH,CDASH This implementation guide, a joint effort of CDISC and HL7, defines mapping between FHIR release 4.0 and three specific CDISC standards: SDTM, CDASH and LAB. STU 2021-08-31 Implementation Guide Regulated Studies Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Vital Records Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDR), R1",BFDR, BFDR FHIR, FHIR for Birth and Fetal Death Reporting This is a FHIR IG that defines birth and fetal death reporting in the USA. Birth and fetal death reporting includes the transmission of data from health care provider to jurisdictional Vital Reco... STU 2023-10-10 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Situational Awareness for Novel Epidemic Response (SANER), R1",SANER, resource availability reporting The Situational Awareness for Novel Epidemic Response Implementation Guide enables transmission of high level situational awareness information from inpatient facility to centralized data repo... STU 2021-09-07 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Vital Records Common Library, R1 - US Realm",Vital Records Common Profile Library, Vital Records Common Profiles This guide is a FHIR Resources Library to support the need of multiple Vital Records Implementation Guides. It doe not provide any use case or scenario specific content or additional guidance on how to use these artifacts, but serf a a ... STU 2023-10-06 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=20,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 Informative Document: Standardized Medication Profile, R1",medication profile, medication list,Medication Profile White Paper, Medication List This white paper identifies and defines the component of an interoperable medication profile for clinicians, patient and caregiver to use for the exchange of essential medication information duri... Informative 2021-09-08 White Paper Pharmacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Dental Data Exchange, R1", This implementation guide provides an HL7 CDA-based set of template defining the Dental Referral Note and Dental Consultation Note. These standardized document are intended to support bi-directional information exchange between a medic... STU 2021-09-08 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Medical Records, Patient Care, Patient Referral Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=20,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 DAM: UDI IG Requirements, R1",UDI, Unique Device Identification,UDI DAM The DAM contains the requirement for reporting and utilizing Unique Device Identifiers (UDIs) for the identification of implantable medical devices. Implantable device are subject to UDI labeling regulations, and because impla... Informative 2021-10-06 Domain Analysis Model Healthcare Devices Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: NHSN Inpatient Medication Administration, R1",NHSN Med Admin, MedAdmin, NHSN MedAdmin, NHSN Medication Administration This IG support electronic submission of line-level medication administration data to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). The project establishes an electronic submission standard that is vendor-neutral that leverage exist... STU 2021-10-12 Implementation Guide Pharmacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: NHSN Adverse Drug Event Hypoglycemia, R1",NHSN ADE,NHSN-ADE This IG support electronic submission of adverse drug event (ADE) data to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). The project establishs an electronic submission standard that is vendor-neutral that leverage existing workf... STU 2021-10-12 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Quality Reporting Agencies US Realm Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 FHIR IG: Dental Data Exchange, R1","Dental Referral",Orthodontic,Periodontal This implementation guide provides the FHIR R4 artifact necessary to construct a Dental Referral Note Bundle and Dental Consultation Note Bundle. These standardized document are intended to support bi-directional information exchange betwe... STU 2021-11-02 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Medical Records, Patient Care, Patient Referral Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 Guidance: Attachments Collaboration Project (ACP), R1",ACP This white paper is focused on the business and operational process of exchanging additional information (Attachments) using the HL7 standard for clinical information and the X12 transaction sets... Informative 2021-10-06 White Paper Attachments Stable Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Post-Acute Care Functional Status, R1",PACIO Functional Status The PACIO Functional Status Implementation Guide (IG) is for exchanging mobility, self-care, and domestic life observation primarily involving post-acute care (PAC) transition between various heal... STU 2021-11-03 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Post-Acute Care Cognitive Status, R1",PACIO Cognitive Status The PACIO Cognitive Status Implementation Guide (IG) is for exchanging cognitive status and mental functioning observation primarily involving post-acute care (PAC) transition between various healthcare settings, including ambul... STU 2021-11-03 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Common Data Model Harmonization (CDMH), R1",,CDMH The Common Data Models Harmonization (CDMH) FHIR Implementation Guide (IG) will focus on mapping and translating observational data extracted for Patient Centered Outcome Research (PCOR) and other purpose into FHIR format. The proje... STU 2021-12-08 Implementation Guide Regulated Studies Active Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Transfusion and Vaccination Adverse Event Reporting, Release 1 - US Realm",ICSR AE Reporting The FHIR Implementation Guide provides a set of profile for detection, validation, reporting, and ultimately recording/persisting Adverse Events associated with blood transfusion and vaccinations. ... STU 2022-01-19 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 FHIR IG: Health Record Exchange (HRex) Framework, R1",HRex A foundational implementation guide that defines core profiles, terminologies, methodology and other guideline that are used by other - and in some case all Da Vinci implementation guides. ... STU 2022-03-23 Implementation Guide Financial Management, Security and Privacy Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Payors US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Attachments,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Data Exchange (CDex), R1",Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange (CDex) - STU1 Release,Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange, Provider to Payer Data Exchange,CDex This IG provides detailed guidance that help implementers use FHIR-based interaction to support specific exchange of clinical data between provider and payer (or other providers). This guide document Direct Query, Task Based and Attac... STU 2022-08-14 Implementation Guide Attachments, Care Provision, Financial Management, Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: SMART Web Messaging, R1",smart web messaging, SMART Web Messaging enables tight UI integration between EHRs and embedded SMART apps via HTML5s Web Messaging. SMART Web Messaging allows application to push unsigned orders, note snippets, risk scores, or UI sugge... STU 2022-05-06 Implementation Guide Cardiology, Care Provision, Laboratory, Medical Records, Nutrition, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy, Public Health, Scheduling, Security and Privacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Medical Imaging Service Providers Universal Section=24,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DCM,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 Cross-Paradigm Specification: Clinical Negation Requirements, Release 1",Negation This document survey requirement and extant pattern for representing pertinent negative and other negative semantics, and it analyzes the relative strength and challenge for these pattern in different use cases. This analy... Informative 2022-04-28 Domain Content Model Active Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=EHR "HL7 EHR-S FP: Pediatric Care Health IT, R1",Pediatric Care HIT Functional Profile HL7 Pediatric Care Health IT Functional Profile is an Informative Standard that describes the electronic health record functionality supporting child health care in the United States. The standard support the Recommendations for the Volun... Informative 2022-05-04 Functional Profile Care Provision Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Local and State Departments of Health, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR IG: Da Vinci Risk Adjustment, Release 1 - US Realm",Risk Adjustment,davinci-ra The Da Vinci Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resource (FHIR) Risk Adjustment Implementation Guide describes exchanging risk adjustment coding gap between payer and providers. Risk adjusted premium calculation are impor... STU 2022-06-16 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Financial Management Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies Family=V2,Type=NOT_PUBLISHED,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable The HL7 Version 2.9 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... Not Published XML Schemas Stable Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 FHIR IG: Digital Insurance Card, R1 - US Realm",US CARIN Digital Insurance Card (DIC),carin-digital-insurance-card This IG developed artifact (FHIR implementation guides, code mappings, reference implementations, etc) to retrieve proof of insurance coverage information via FHIR REST API when requested or shared by a Patient in order to creat... STU 2024-04-16 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors US Realm Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: Subscription R5 Backport, R1",Subscriptions,Subscription Backport IG, R5 to R4 Subscriptions The Subscription R5 Backport Implementation Guide enables server running FHIR R4B to implement a subset of R5 Subscriptions in a standardized way. The goal of publishing this guide is to define a standard metho... STU 2022-07-18 Implementation Guide Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIMI "HL7 FHIR IG: COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library, R1 - US Realm",,COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library The IG is a library of commonly used FHIR profiles, not specific to any use case. See the specification athttp://hl7.org/fhir/us/covid19library/informative1.... Informative 2022-07-25 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Community-Based Health, Laboratory, Patient Care, Public Health, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: Vital Signs, R1",,Vital Signs Vital sign are collected on nearly every patient encounter. Oftentimes, the clinician need to know the patient position, device, body location or method the measure were taken. Blood pressure a a component of vital sign also... STU 2022-09-11 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Type=STU,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: ePOLST Portable Medical Orders, R1 - US Realm",,ePOLST A CDA R2 implementation guide (US Realm) for the National POLST Portable Medical Orders form, building on the extensive analysis of data element and stakeholder engagement by National POLST (https://polst.org/). A POLST Portable Medic... STU 2022-10-03 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Emergency Management, Nutrition, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: Hybrid/Intermediary Exchange, R1",Hybrid / Intermediary Exchange, Intermediary Exchange,exchange-routing, FAST The Hybrid / Intermediary Exchange FHIR implementation guide provides guidance enabling FHIR REST interaction across one or more intermediary using a passive approach in which the intermediary is passing through the i... STU 2022-09-26 Implementation Guide Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 FHIR IG: FAIRness for FHIR, R1",FHIR4FAIR. FAIR,FHIR4FAIR The FHIR for FAIR Implementation Guide provides guidance on how the HL7 FHIR standard can be used for supporting the implementation and the assessment of the FAIR principle for health data. ... STU 2022-09-28 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Public Health, Regulated Studies Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Medicolegal Death Investigation (MDI), R1 - US Realm",MDI Standards and guidance on the use of FHIR resource for exchange of death investigation information between medical examiner/coroner case management systems, jurisdictional electronic death registration system (EDRS), toxicology and other... STU 2022-09-30 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 FHIR IG:PACIO Re-assessment Timepoints, R1 - US Realm",,pacio-rt The Re-Assessment Timepoints implementation guide (IG) describes a mean to break up extended Post-Acute admission into consumable block that can reflect the evolution of care over time of the enco... STU 2022-09-28 Implementation Guide Community-Based Health, Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SECURE "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: UDAP Security for Registration, Authentication, and Authorization, Release 1",,udap-security This implementation guide describes how to extend OAuth 2.0 to support secure and scalable workflow for business-to-business (B2B) apps that implement the client credential flow or authorization code flow.... STU 2022-09-27 Implementation Guide Security and Privacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: Military Service History and Status, R1", This implementation guide design document is intended to create a set of profile and extension to support Military Service History and Status reporting consistent with US regulatory requirement (i.e. Title 38 Veteran Benefits) and exten... STU 2022-05-30 Implementation Guide Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=VOCAB,wg=ICTC "V2 Quality Criteria, R1", This publication defines clear quality criterion for HL7 Version 2 implementation guides. These criterion are applied by the implementation guide author and the appropriate HL7 committee a HL7 v2 implementation guide move through the stand... Informative 2022-11-07 , , Document Active Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 DAM: Nutrition, R1",,NCP DAM Standards for the transmission and exchange of nutrition order including information on oral diets, enteral nutrition and oral nutritional supplements, along with food allergies/intolerances and food preference infor... STU 2022-12-14 Domain Analysis Model Care Provision, Nutrition Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "FHIR R4 IG: HAI-LTCF-FHIR, R1",HAI LTCF, NHSN HAI LTCF This implementation guide (IG) specifies standard for electronic submission of Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) report to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) of the Centers for ... STU 2023-01-10 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Lab Vendors US Realm Section=11,Family=EHR,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "HL7 Specification: Usability Guidelines for EHR Systems, R1",Usability Guidelines List of Functions and Conformance Criteria that promote the usability of electronic health record systems. Informative 2022-12-22 Functional Profile Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions Universal Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7/NCPDP Guidance: Consultant Pharmacist Consult Note Update, R1 - US Realm", The HL7/NCPDP Pharmacist Consultation Note guidance document address the unique pharmacy requirement when creating either C-CDA Consult Notes or C-CDA on FHIR Consultation Notes. Informative 2023-03-08 Document Pharmacy Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER mihr, MMM, Maternal Health for Research he guide focus on longitudinal maternal care, which includes antepartum (including pre-pregnancy), intrapartum, and postpartum care of a pregnant woman. It defines how maternal cohort can be evaluated for research, from which data ... STU 2023-03-25 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: International Patient Access (IPA), R1",IPA The International Patient Access (IPA) standard enables regulators, empower patients, guide app developers, and promise greater consistency across country for multinational apps and FHIR servers. ... STU 2023-03-26 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, HIS Vendors, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Patient Cost Transparency, R1 - US Realm",PCT This IG provides detailed guidance to support provider and payer exchanging financial information for specific service and item using FHIR-based standards. This exchange involves a provider submitting a Good Faith Estimate (GFE) to a pay... STU 2023-03-30 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: At-Home Test Report, Release 1 - US Realm",At-Home Testing This implementation guide (IG) is for use in transmitting At-Home In-Vitro Test result to local, state, territorial and federal health agencies. It wa developed a part of a collaborative project with the NIH/NIBIB, ONC, a vendo... STU 2023-03-25 Implementation Guide Laboratory, Public Health Active US Realm Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 FHIR IG: Data Segmentation for Privacy (DS4P), R1",,FHIR DS4P Provides FHIR guidance for applying security label with coded tag for use in access control system governing the collection, access, use, and disclosure of the target FHIR Resource(s) a requ... STU 2023-04-17 Implementation Guide Security and Privacy Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Payors, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Single Institutional Review Board Project (sIRB), Release 1",sIRB Data standard to move data and document from clinical research site to a single ethic review board in support of the NIH Policy on the Use of a Single Institutional Review Board for Multi-Site Research. ... STU 2023-04-20 Implementation Guide Regulated Studies Active Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Study Schedule of Activities, R1", The core of this project is to define a usable pattern for a Clinical Trial Schedule of Activities structure using FHIR Resources and Processes, such that: it can be shared STU 2023-04-18 Implementation Guide Regulated Studies Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 V2 IG: Diagnostic Audiology Reporting, R1",DAR Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) program exist world-wide to help identify infant who are deaf or hard of hearing so that critical time for language and communication development are not lost. Unidentified hearing loss ... STU 2023-04-18 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=20,Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Retrieval of Real World Data for Clinical Research, R1",RWD A FHIR Implementation Guide that defines FHIR profile that can be used to retrieve relevant research data from Real World Data source specifically Electronic Health Record (EHR) system - and ultimately transform that ... STU 2022-05-26 Implementation Guide Regulated Studies Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PAFM FAST Identify This Implementation Guide provides guidance that can be used to enhance current workflow that support patient matching and Digital Identity, and envisions a longer term path for both providing more... STU 2022-06-01 Implementation Guide Patient Administration Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: MedMorph, R1",MedMorph Reference Architecture (RA) IG,MedMorph The goal of the MedMorph project is to develop and pilot a scalable and extensible standards-based reference architecture. This reference architecture will enable clinical data exchange with electronic system (e.g., EHRs) and publi... STU 2023-06-08 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: Cancer Electronic Pathology Reporting, R1 - US Realm",,Cancer path reports,CA ePath Report,ePath on FHI This project us FHIR to support structured electronic collection and exchange of cancer pathology information between a LIS and CCR using either of two approaches: one is directly from an LIS ... STU 2024-04-16 Implementation Guide Laboratory, Medical Records, Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Lab Vendors US Realm Section=22,Topic=SPL,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Electronic Medicinal Product Information, R1",ePI,emedicinal-product-info A FHIR Implementation Guide that allows for the exchanging of medicinal product information between computer system based on FHIR. STU 2023-07-26 Implementation Guide Materials Management, Regulated Products, SPL Active Health Care IT Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency Universal Section=20,Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: CodeX Radiation Therapy Treatment Data (RTTD), R1",,RTTD There is a demonstrated need to establish data standardization for RT end-of-treatment summaries, in-progress summaries, and supporting clinical detail to supplement these summary reports. The CodeX Radiation Therapy (CodeX RT) Imple... STU 2023-07-28 Implementation Guide Care Provision, Patient Care Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: MedMorph Surveys, R1",MedMorph Health Care Surveys Content IG The Health Care Surveys Content Implementation Guide (IG) specifies how the MedMorph Reference Architecture (RA) IG is leveraged to enable health care organization to implement Health Care Surveys Use Cases outlined in th... STU 2023-08-21 Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: ICHOM Breast Cancer PCOM Set, Release 1",ICHOM PCOM This Implementation Guide simplifies the effort of healthcare provider organization to collect data needed for the ICHOM patient centered outcome measure for breast cancer, by defining a stan... STU 2023-08-21 Implementation Guide Clinical Quality, Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Quality Reporting Agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Public Health Profiles Library, R1 - US Realm",USPHPL, USPH Profiles The US Public Health Profiles Library (USPHPL) is a collection of reusable architecture and content profile representing common public health concept and patterns. It is intended a a complement to the US Core Implementation Guide (US Core)... STU 2023-08-17 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=11,Family=EHR,Topic=MEDREC,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV POHR, POMR The POHR FP project identifies relevant function and conformance criterion from HL7/ISO 10781, EHR-S FM Release 2.1, modifying and adding to those function and conformance criterion where appropriate. Release 1 focus on Problem List Manag... Informative Functional Profile Medical Records Active Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Physical Activity, Release 1 - US Realm", This implementation guide cover the full spectrum of interoperability relating to assessing and enhancing patient physical activity levels. It is intended to support communication between clinical and similar system that can diagnose physi... STU 2023-08-25 Implementation Guide Patient Care, Patient Referral Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies US Realm Section=24,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Product_Type=Structures,Section=17,Product_Type=FM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 Specification: Health Service Reference Architecture (HL7-HSRA), R1",,HL7-HIRA The Health Services Reference Architecture (HSRA) aim to support the design of medium/large scale eHealth architecture based on HL7 service and standards. The HSRA support the architectural desi... STU 2023-09-07 Functional Model, Services, Standard Reference Materials, Structures Care Provision, Clinical Statement, Community-Based Health, Decision Support, Medical Records, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Pharmacy, Public Health, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Implementation Guide: Sex and Gender Representation, Release 1",Gender Harmony These are the CDA template that align with the cross-paradigm implementation guide Gender Harmony - Sex and gender representation that provides definitive guidance on how to exchange clinical sex and gende... STU 2023-09-29 Implementation Guide, Standard Reference Materials, XML Schemas Financial Management, Patient Administration, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=12,Section=17,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Implementation Guide: Sex and Gender Representation, Release 1",Gender Harmony A cross-paradigm implementation guide that provides definitive guidance on how to exchange clinical sex and gender affirming information using HL7 models. This specification is built upon, but ha some change in comparison to, the initi... Informative, STU 2023-09-29 Implementation Guide, Standard Reference Materials Financial Management, Patient Administration, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HSSWG "HL7 FHIR IG: Human Services Directory, R1 - US Realm",HSDS The FHIR IG for the Human Service Resource and Provider Directory, is a US Realm published standard, and an intended companion guide to the PDEX Plan-Net Provider Directory. The Human Service Resource and Provider Directory focus on requi... STU 2023-10-04 Implementation Guide Community-Based Health Active Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Registry Extraction and Data Submission (CREDS), R1 - US Realm",CREDS This guide profile how a registry say what need to be sent, and how a healthcare provider organization can use that to automate the collection and formatting the data into a submission, conforming to registry or FHIR imple... STU 2023-11-14 Implementation Guide Public Health Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: IHE SDC eCC, R1",IHE SDC/eCC on FHIR Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) Structured Data Capture (SDC) on FHIR us a form-driven workflow to capture and transmit encoded data by creating FHIR Observations. This IG is mostly used for converting College of Ameri... STU 2023-12-12 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Health Care IT Vendors, Lab Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTS "Hl7 Patient Contributed Data, R1",PCD, PGHD This white paper explores and defines Patient Contributed Data (PCD). It look at barrier to effective use of this data and recommends strategy for overcoming the barrier a well a way to integrate this data for clini... Informative 2023-11-16 White Paper Care Provision, Community-Based Health, Healthcare Devices, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Security and Privacy Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=20,Family=ARDEN,Topic=Decision Support,Type=STU,Section=15,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN Arden Syntax v3.0, The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems Version 3.0 is the latest version of a formalism for clinical knowledge representation that can be used by clinicians, knowledge engineers, administrator and others to implement clinical decis... STU 2023-12-11 Document Decision Support Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies Universal Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: IHE SDC eCC, R1",,IHE SDC/eCC on FHIR Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) Structured Data Capture (SDC) on FHIR us a form-driven workflow to capture and transmit encoded data by creating FHIR Observations. This IG is mostly used for converting College of Ameri... STU 2023-12-12 Implementation Guide Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Health Care IT Vendors, Lab Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies US Realm Section=22,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=FHIR,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "HL7 FHIR IG: Record Lifecycle Event (RLE), R1 - US Realm",,RLE, ehrsrle This Implementation Guide offer a methodology to support trusted electronic health record (EHR) and personal health record (PHR) management using HL7 Fast Health Interoperable Resources (FHIR). This approach is based on the Recor... Informative Implementation Guide Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Functioning, Release 1 - US Realm", The Personal Functioning and Engagement (PFE) IG support the exchange of information related to a person ability to participate in activity and interact with their community and the environment around them.... STU 2024-01-05 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTS "HL7 FHIR IG: Advance Directives Interoperability (ADI), R1",,pacio-adi The PACIO ADI implementation guide (IG) describes how to use existing HL7 FHIR standard to create, update, share, verify, and exchange information about an individual's advance medical goals, preferences, and priority for c... STU 2024-01-11 Implementation Guide Patient Care Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Emergency Services Providers, Healthcare Institutions US Realm Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Risk Based Contract Member Identification, Release 1 - US Realm", The implementation guide defines the mechanisms, resources, profile and extension required to exchange Member Attribution Lists. The Member Attribution Lists enable provider and payer organization to create patient list for Value... STU 2024-01-09 Implementation Guide Financial Management Active EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Payors US Realm Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: MedMorph Cancer, R1", The MedMorph Central Cancer Registry Reporting Content IG specifies how the MedMorph RA IG is leveraged to enable health care organization to implement Central Cancer Reporting Use Cases. This standard facilitates autom... STU Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, Local and State Departments of Health, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) US Realm Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDA R2 IG: NHSN HAI Reports for Antimicrobial Use (AU) in LTCF, Edition 1 - US Realm",CDA R2 NHSN-HAI-LTC-AU This implementation guide (IG) specifies standard for electronic submission of Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) report to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) of the Centers for ... STU Implementation Guide Public Health Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, EHR, PHR Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health US Realm Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Adverse Event Clinical Research, R1",Adverse Event Clinical Research Profile This guide provides a baseline profile on the FHIR AdverseEvent Resource suitable for Clinical Research. The profile serf a foundational specification to meet general need in communicating serious and non-serious adverse event... STU 2024-04-15 Implementation Guide, Specification Errata Regulated Studies Active EHR, PHR Vendors, HIS Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Adverse Event Clinical Research R4 Backport, R1",Adverse Event Clinical Research Profile R4 Backport This guide provides a baseline profile on the FHIR AdverseEvent Resource suitable for Clinical Research. The profile serf a foundational specification to meet general need in communicating serious and non-serious adverse event... STU 2024-04-17 Implementation Guide Regulated Studies Active EHR, PHR Vendors, HIS Vendors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Section=1,Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Topic=Devices,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=V2MGMTGRP HL7 Version 2.9.1,V2.9.1 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Standard Reference Materials Attachments, Cardiology, Care Provision, Clinical Genomics, Clinical Quality, Financial Management, Healthcare Devices, Laboratory, Materials Management, Medical Records, Nutrition, Patient Administration, Patient Care, Patient Referral, Personnel Management, Pharmacy, Public Health, Scheduling, Terminology Active Clinical and Public Health Laboratories, Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors, EHR, PHR Vendors, Equipment Vendors, Health Care IT Vendors, Healthcare Institutions, HIS Vendors, Immunization Registries, Lab Vendors, Local and State Departments of Health, Medical Imaging Service Providers, Payors, Pharmaceutical Vendors, Quality Reporting Agencies, Regulatory Agency, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Universal Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Primary Standards HL7 Standards - Section 1: Primary Standards SECTION 1 Primary standard are the most popular standard integral for system integrations, and interoperability. Our most frequently used and in-demand standard are in this category. (This section also includes the Version 2 and Version 3 solution sets, which encompass all standard relative to that version. Individual V2 and V3 standard are sold independently in the corresponding categories.) Click a Standard to link to more detail. Filters Filter options: Ballot Type Informative Normative STU Current State Active Retired Stable Family CCOW CDA FHIR V2 V3 Product Type ANSI-approved Data Types Encoding Syntax Services Standard Reference Materials Structures Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) Realm Universal US Realm Stakeholder Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions HIS Vendors Immunization Registries Lab Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors Quality Reporting Agencies Regulatory Agency Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Topic Attachments Cardiology Care Provision CCOW Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Community-Based Health Decision Support Financial Management Healthcare Devices HHSFR Laboratory Materials Management Medical Records Nutrition Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Referral Personnel Management Pharmacy Public Health Regulated Products Regulated Studies Scheduling Security and Privacy Terminology Work Group Clinical Context Object Workgroup FHIR Management Group Infrastructure and Messaging Structured Documents V2 Management Group Filter Name Description Type Section=1,Family=CDA,Type=STU,Section=10,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE C-CDA R2.1, Consolidated CDA Release 2.1,"HL7 IG for CDA R2: Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes, R1","HL7 IG for CDAR2: IHE Health Story Consolidation, R1",Consolidated CDA,C-CDA, C-CDA R2, Consolidated CDA Release 2, CCDA,C-CDA /StructureDefinition Publication, C-CDA Web Publication C-CDA Online: A navigation website for C-CDA 2.1 The Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) implementation guide contains a library of CDA templates, incorporating and harmonizing previous effort from Health Level Seven... STU Section=1,Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2","Clinical Document Architecture, R2","Clinical Document Architecture, R2 (Reaffirmation)",CDAR2,CDA R2 The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provi... Normative Section=1,Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Product_Type=Structures,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIRMG HL7 FHIR R4B,"HL7 FHIR R4 Observation, Release 1","HL7 FHIR R4 Patient, Release 1","HL7 FHIR R4 Terminology & Conformance, Release 1","HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), R1","HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR)",FHIR,FHIR Terminology,FHIR Patient,FHIR Observation FHIR is an interoperability standard intended to facilitate the exchange of healthcare information between healthcare providers, patients, caregivers, payers, researchers, and any one else involved in the healthcare ecosystem. It consi... Normative, STU Section=1,Section=24,Family=CCOW,Topic=CCOW,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=16,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=VISUAL,wg=INM Reaffirmation of CCOW 1.6,Clinical Context Management Specification (CCOW) Version 1.6,CCOW This specification ha been retired, and is being replaced by HL7 FHIRCast Aimed at facilitating the integration of application at the point of use, CCOW Context Management Specification is a sta... Normative Section=1,Section=20,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Become an HL7 V2 certified control specialist today! ... Informative, Normative Section=1,Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Topic=Devices,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=V2MGMTGRP HL7 Version 2.9.1,V2.9.1 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=1,Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Education & Awareness HL7 Standards - Section 2: Clinical and Administrative Domains Messaging and document standard for clinical specialty and group are found in this section. These standard are usually implemented once primary standard for the organization are in place. Click a Standard to link to more detail. Filters Filter options: Ballot Type DSTU DSTU (Expired) Informative Normative STU Current State Active Retired Stable Family Arden CDA Cross-paradigm EHR FHIR V2 V3 Product Type ANSI-approved ANSI-registered Technical Report Data Types Document Domain Analysis Model Domain Analysis Model Encoding Syntax Functional Model Functional Profile Implementation Guide Services Standard Reference Materials Structures Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) V3 White Paper XML Schemas Realm Universal US Realm Stakeholder Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Emergency Services Providers Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions HIS Vendors Immunization Registries Lab Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors Quality Reporting Agencies Regulatory Agency Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Topic Attachments Cardiology Care Provision Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Clinical Statement Community-Based Health Decision Support Emergency Management Financial Management Healthcare Devices HHSFR Laboratory Materials Management Medical Records Nutrition Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Referral Personnel Management Pharmacy Public Health Regulated Products Regulated Studies Scheduling Security and Privacy SPL Terminology Work Group Administrative Steering Division Affiliate Engagement Committee Anesthesia Arden Syntax Biomedical Research and Regulation Clinical Decision Support Clinical Genomics Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Clinical Interoperability Council Clinical Quality Information Clinical Statement Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) Cross-Group Projects Devices Emergency Care FHIR Management Group Financial Management Imaging Integration Implementable Technology Specifications Infrastructure and Messaging Mobile Health Orders and Observations Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Empowerment Patient Safety Payer/Provider Information Exchange Work Group Pharmacy Public Health Publishing Security Services Oriented Architecture Structured Documents Terminology Infrastructure Work Group V2 Management Group Filter Name Description Type Section=20,Family=ARDEN,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=15,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN "Reaffirm Health Level Seven Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems, Version 2.10",Arden Syntax V2.10, The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems Version 2.10 is the latest version of a formalism for clinical knowledge representation that can be used by clinicians, knowledge engineers, administrator and others to implement clinical decis... Normative Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Emergency Management,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE Clinical Document Architecture R2.1,CDA, CDA Release 2.1, CDA R2.1 The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provi... Normative Section=1,Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2","Clinical Document Architecture, R2","Clinical Document Architecture, R2 (Reaffirmation)",CDAR2,CDA R2 The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provi... Normative Section=1,Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Product_Type=Structures,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIRMG HL7 FHIR R4B,"HL7 FHIR R4 Observation, Release 1","HL7 FHIR R4 Patient, Release 1","HL7 FHIR R4 Terminology & Conformance, Release 1","HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), R1","HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR)",FHIR,FHIR Terminology,FHIR Patient,FHIR Observation FHIR is an interoperability standard intended to facilitate the exchange of healthcare information between healthcare providers, patients, caregivers, payers, researchers, and any one else involved in the healthcare ecosystem. It consi... Normative, STU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "Withdrawal of IDMP - Units of Measure, Release 1","JIC IDMP Data element and structure for unique identification and exchange of regulated information on substances, Release 1","JIC IDMP Data element and structure for unique identification and exchange of regulated information on pharmaceutical dose forms, unit of presentation and route of administration, Release 1","JIC IDMP Data element and structure for unique identification of Units of Measurement, Release 1","JIC IDMP Data element and structure for unique identification and exchange of regulated medicinal product information, Release 1",JIC IDMP Data element and structure to uniquely identify and exchange pharmaceutical product (PhPIDs),IDMP The HL7/ANSI standard related to the ISO Identification of Medicinal Products (IDMP) have been retired. The retired status only applies to the HL7 publication. The ISO IDMP standard are still active and managed by ISO TC 215.<... Normative Section=20,Family=ARDEN,Topic=Decision Support,Type=STU,Section=15,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN Arden Syntax v3.0, The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems Version 3.0 is the latest version of a formalism for clinical knowledge representation that can be used by clinicians, knowledge engineers, administrator and others to implement clinical decis... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Central Cancer Registries, Release 1",Cancer Registry CDA IG Population-based cancer surveillance is critical in North America for cancer control activity aimed at reducing the morbidity and mortality of cancer, the second leading cause of death in the United States (U.S.) and the leading cause... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 Attachments IG CCDA Exchange, R3",Attachment Supplemental Guide,Supplemental Attachments Guide This implementation guide (Guide) defines the requirement for sending and receiving standards-based electronic attachments. It doe so by applying additional constraint onto standard in common use for clinical documentation and by defin... Informative, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=10,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE,wg=PHER,wg=EMERGENCYCARE,wg=CIC "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Emergency Medical Services Run Report, R2","CDAR2 IG: Emergency Medical Services Run Report, R1",EMS, PCR, Run Report, Patient Care Report This implementation guide support the provision of emergency medical service data from provider agency to hospital emergency department using the CDA standard. The clinical specification were developed by the National EMS Infor... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=Attachments,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 Attachments IG: CCDA Exchange; Periodontal Attachment, R1",Periodontal Attachment,AIS0011 This standard is retired and will no longer be maintained or improved by the HL7 community. The Periodontal attachment is used to convey information about periodontal related servi... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Implementation Guide: Sex and Gender Representation, Release 1",Gender Harmony These are the CDA template that align with the cross-paradigm implementation guide Gender Harmony - Sex and gender representation that provides definitive guidance on how to exchange clinical sex and gende... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Medication Therapy Management (MTM) Templates, R1",MTM CMR Take-away document; MTM CMS document,CDAR2,MTM This two volume guide support the documentation and communication need of the expanding Medication Therapy Management (MTM) service arena and the CMS Medicare Part D reporting and patient information requirement for MTM. ... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Patient-Friendly Consent Directives, Release 1",Patient Friendly Language for Security and Privacy, PFL, The Patient Friendly Language for Consumer User Interfaces IG is sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and is a result of a focused effort to provide a plain language healthcare vocabulary for patient comprehension. This ... Informative Section=20,Family=CDA,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Pharmacy Templates, R1",Pharmacy Templates; Templates; Pharmacy CDA Templates,Pharmacy Universal Templates This Implementation Guide provides CDA R2 template for Medication Order and Medication Statement, Medication Dispense and Medication Administration that can be used by HL7 standard developer and external project to develop model for p... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Reporting, R2","HL7 IG for CDA R2: Public Health Case Reporting, Release 1","Public Health Case Reporting" The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for electronic submission of electronic initial public health case report using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format. This imple... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=CQI "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Quality Reporting Document Architecture, Release 1",QRDA, Quality Report Document Architecture, Measure Report,QRDA Cat I STU5,QRDA I STU 5.3 This two-volume implementation guide (IG) describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element for Quality Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA) documents. The Institute of Medic... STU Section=20,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CQI "CDA R2 IG: QRDA; Supplemental Use Cases, R1",QRDA Data Sharing User Guide Clinicians who report to quality program have expressed a need to more successfully exchange (both send and receive) data for quality. This both allows provider to ensure that patient care is adhering to quality standard without repea... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Trauma Registry Data Submission, R1",NTDB, NTDS, TRDS, Trauma Registry Data Standard, trauma registry This implementation guide support the transfer of data element defined by the American College of Surgeons Committee on Trauma for Trauma Registries in a CDA document. Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=DSTU,Topic=Attachments,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 IG for CDA Release 2: Consolidated-CDA Additional Attachment Templates, Release 1", The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to provide guidance on a standardized, implementable, interoperable electronic solution to reduce the time and expense related to the exchange of clinical and administrative infor... DSTU Section=20,Section=24,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MOBILE "HL7 MHaFF: Consumer Mobile Health App Functional Framework, R1",cMHAFF The Consumer Mobile Health Application Functional Framework is an HL7 Standard for Trial Use (STU). The primary goal of the Consumer Mobile Health Functional Framework ( cMHAFF ) are to provide a standard against which a mobile app&r... STU Section=20,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 DAM: Vital Records, R4","HL7 DAM: Vital Records, Release 3",HL7 DAM: Vital Records R2,"HL7 DAM: Vital Records","V3 DAM: Vital Records, R1",HL7 DAM: Vital Records,VR, VR DAM,VR DAM R3 The Vital Records Domain Analysis Model (VR DAM) is the authoritative statement of foundational requirement for the design and development of health information exchange standard in Health Level Seven (HL7) related to vital... Informative, STU Section=20,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=12,Section=17,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Implementation Guide: Sex and Gender Representation, Release 1",Gender Harmony A cross-paradigm implementation guide that provides definitive guidance on how to exchange clinical sex and gender affirming information using HL7 models. This specification is built upon, but ha some change in comparison to, the initi... Informative, STU Section=20,Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Family=Cross-paradigm,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ITS "HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Quality Expression Lanaguage, R1","Clinical Quality Language",CQL Clinical Quality Language (CQL) is a high-level, domain-specific language focused on clinical quality improvement and targeted at measure and decision support artifact author and implementers. ... Normative Section=20,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3 DAM: Specimen, R2", This specification is the second release of a Domain Analysis Model for Specimen, documenting the conceptual information requirement for use case provided by Clinical Genomics, Anatomic Pathology and Public Health Laboratories, the harmo... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 DAM: Clinical Genomics, Release 1",CG DAM The HL7 Domain Analysis Model: Clinical Genomics feature use case key to personalized genomic medicine and translational research, including more typical scenario for testing of a person inherited or germline genome, cance... Informative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 Domain Information Model: Clinical Genomics, Release 1",CG DAM,CG DIM This document develops a domain analysis model for various use case in clinical genomics with an emphasis on clinical sequencing. The model describes and outline a multitude of use case and scenario in which clinical sequencing testing is cu... Informative Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 DAM: Common Clinical Registry Framework, R2","HL7 DAM: Common Clinical Registry Framework, R1",Registry DAM,CCRF,Registry, Registries Common Data Elements It is hoped that the registry DAM will serve a foundational material for other HL7 standard work, such a the development of HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) profile and/or implementation guide for common regis... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 DAM: Harmonization of Health Quality Artifact Reasoning and Expression Logic, R1",Expression Logic Harmonization, This document seek to define the common concept and semantics involved in modeling reasoning within the various aspect of the health quality domain, with the goal of providing a common conceptual foundation that other speci... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CQI "HL7 Domain Analysis Model: Health Quality, Release 1", This specification defines a conceptual model for health data for use in the health quality domain. It harmonizes the requirement for patient data use in quality measurement and clinical decision-support enabling a single model to be... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "V3 DAM: Immunization, R1" The Immunization Domain Analysis Model ha now been retired and should no longer be used a the basis for active standard development for the immunization space. ... Informative Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=GAS Anesthesia DAM,Intra-operative Anesthesia DAM The document aim to provide a reasonable coverage of intra-procedural anesthesia - it content is intended to represent the content of the conventional anesthesia record and to support it electronic equivalent. It includes behavioral and s... Informative Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 DAM: Nutrition, R1",,NCP DAM Standards for the transmission and exchange of nutrition order including information on oral diets, enteral nutrition and oral nutritional supplements, along with food allergies/intolerances and food preference infor... STU Section=20,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS This specification is the first release of a Domain Analysis Model for Specimen, documenting the conceptual information requirement for use case provided by Clinical Genomics, Anatomic Pathology and Public Health Laboratories, a well a th... Informative Section=20,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 DAM: THEMES, R1",THEMES DAM,THEMES The THEMES (Terminology Harmonization in Exercise Medicine and Exercise Science) project will develop a Domain Analysis Model that will address major concept, data elements, and data interoperability barrier that have impeded the use o... Informative Section=20,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DAM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 DAM: UDI IG Requirements, R1",UDI, Unique Device Identification,UDI DAM The DAM contains the requirement for reporting and utilizing Unique Device Identifiers (UDIs) for the identification of implantable medical devices. Implantable device are subject to UDI labeling regulations, and because impla... Informative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Family=EHR,Topic=LABORATORY,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 EHR-S IG: S&I Framework Laboratory Results Interface (LRI) Functional Requirements, R1",EHR-S FR for LRI, Functional Requirements for LRI This document ha been developed through the HHS/ONC Standards and Interoperability (S&I) Framework EHR-S Functional Requirements IG-Labs Work Group. This work is part of a larger effort, the ... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Attachments,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Data Exchange (CDex), R1",Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange (CDex) - STU1 Release,Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange, Provider to Payer Data Exchange,CDex This IG provides detailed guidance that help implementers use FHIR-based interaction to support specific exchange of clinical data between provider and payer (or other providers). This guide document Direct Query, Task Based and Attac... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: CodeX Radiation Therapy Treatment Data (RTTD), R1",,RTTD There is a demonstrated need to establish data standardization for RT end-of-treatment summaries, in-progress summaries, and supporting clinical detail to supplement these summary reports. The CodeX Radiation Therapy (CodeX RT) Imple... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Common Data Model Harmonization (CDMH), R1",,CDMH The Common Data Models Harmonization (CDMH) FHIR Implementation Guide (IG) will focus on mapping and translating observational data extracted for Patient Centered Outcome Research (PCOR) and other purpose into FHIR format. The proje... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIMI "HL7 FHIR IG: COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library, R1 - US Realm",,COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library The IG is a library of commonly used FHIR profiles, not specific to any use case. See the specification athttp://hl7.org/fhir/us/covid19library/informative1.... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: International Patient Access (IPA), R1",IPA The International Patient Access (IPA) standard enables regulators, empower patients, guide app developers, and promise greater consistency across country for multinational apps and FHIR servers. ... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Retrieval of Real World Data for Clinical Research, R1",RWD A FHIR Implementation Guide that defines FHIR profile that can be used to retrieve relevant research data from Real World Data source specifically Electronic Health Record (EHR) system - and ultimately transform that ... STU Section=20,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=DSS,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR() Profile: Quality, R1",QICore,QRDA Data Sharing User Guide, qi-core, qicore The QI Core Implementation Guide defines a set of FHIR profile with extension and binding needed to create interoperable, quality-focused applications. The profile in this implementation guid... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=ARDEN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=15,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN "HL7 IG for Arden Syntax, R1", This implementation guide will help knowledge engineers, clinicians, administrators, computer programmer and others use the Arden Syntax to create clinical decision support (CDS) solutions. This includes guidance on how to repre... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Section=10,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Attachment Specification: Supplement to Consolidated CDA Templated Guide, Release 1",Consolidated CDA,C-CDA,CCDA This informative standard is intended to provide guidance in implementing the C-CDA for attachment purposes, including but not limited to claims/encounters, referrals, prior-authorizations, post-adjudicated claim audit... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=DSTU,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Digital Signatures and Delegation of Rights, Release 1",CDA Digital Signature Implementation Guide The Digital Signature and Delegation of Rights Implementation Guides provide a standardized method of applying Digital Signatures to CDA documents. The standard provides for multiple signers, signer declaration of their... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Healthcare Associated Infections Reports, Normative R1", This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocab... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER,wg=CQI "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Central Cancer Registries, Release 1",Cancer Registry CDA IG Population-based cancer surveillance is critical in North America for cancer control activity aimed at reducing the morbidity and mortality of cancer, the second leading cause of death in the United States (U.S.) and the leading cause... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Procedure Note, R1",CDAR2 This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Header and Body element for Procedure Note documents. The Procedure Note or Report is created immediately following a non-operative procedure and record the i... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 SAIF IG: Satisfying Immunization Interoperability Use Cases, R1",,XParadigm This implementation guide will explore the Service-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) methodology to show how various HL7, IHE and OMG immunization-related artifact can be deployed to sati... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: greenCDA Modules for CCD, R1",greenCDA The Clinical Document Architecture Release 2.0 (CDA R2) address universal requirement for exchange and management of structured clinical documents. The approach described in this document, The HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA&r... Informative Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTS "Hl7 Patient Contributed Data, R1",PCD, PGHD This white paper explores and defines Patient Contributed Data (PCD). It look at barrier to effective use of this data and recommends strategy for overcoming the barrier a well a way to integrate this data for clini... Informative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Version 2.2 Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Version 2.3 Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Version 2.3.1 Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Version 2.4 Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Version 2.5 Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS Version 2.5.1,v2,V251,V2.5.1 Additional information on the V2 Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (SOGI) Data Exchange Profile athttp://www.hl7.org/permalink/?SOGIGuidance. Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM Version 2.6,V2,V26,V2.6 Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=INM Version 2.7,V2,V27,V2.7 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS Version 2.7.1 V2.7.1 provides select update to Chapters 2B, 2C, 4, and 7 to support the Laboratory Results and Orders Interface implementation guide for Meaningful Use Stage 2 and 3 in the USA. Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=AFFILDUED Version 2.8,V2,V2.8,V28 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS V2.8.1 V2.8.1 contains a number of update to support the V2 Laboratory implementation guide that are intended to be referenced by ONCs certification program editions. Normative Section=20,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS HL7 Version 2.8.2,V282,V2.8.2 HL7 Version 2.8.2 represents HL7s latest development effort to the line of Version 2 Standards that date back to 1989. HL7 Version 2.8.2 is deemed necessary to support: Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PUBLISHING V2 V2.9 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=20,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Product_Type=FM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 Cross Paradigm Model Transformation Service, R1",MBTS This Standard provides a platform independent Service Functional Model (SFM) specification for an HL7 model-based bi-directional transformation service with exemplary mapping illustrating typical usage. The scope... STU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=SCHEDULING,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 V3 Standard: SOA Care Coordination Service, R1",CCS,CCS for Care Plan This project encompasses several year of discussion and work within the HL7 Patient Care Work Group in collaboration with the SOA Work Group and Clinical Decision Support Work Group. The scope of this specification is to defin... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=IMAGEMGT "HL7 CDA: Imaging Integration; Basic Imaging Reports in CDA and DICOM, Release 1",DICOM,CDA,DIR This HL7 implementation guide describes how the HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 is used to record information for a Diagnostic Imaging Report. A Diagnostic Imaging Repo... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 IG: Clinical Decision Support Knowledge Artifact Implementations, R1",CDS KA IG R1,CDS, CDS Knowledge Artifact Specification, CDS KAS, HeD Schema The Clinical Decision Support (CDS) Knowledge Artifact Specification provides guidance on how to specify and implement shareable CDS knowledge artifact using XML. The scope of the specification includes event-condition-action rules... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model, Release 1","HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model, Release 2",CG This Implementation Guide detail structuring genetic test result into the electronic health record or system for translational medicine, utilizing HL7 version 2.5.1. Data structure enables clinical decision suppo... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS eDOS,Electronic Directory of Service The Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Test Compendium Framework, Release 1 is a master file framework Implementation Guide (IG) for the electronic delivery of a laboratory Directory of Service (eDOS) to all p... Informative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Topic=Terminology,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER LOI, LRI HL7 ha developed multiple Implementation Guides (IGs) for the laboratory domain, supporting US Realm requirements. These IGs cover a broad spectrum of interoperability; in order to harmonize vocabulary requirement across the IGs, HL7 O... DSTU, STU Section=1,Section=20,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Become an HL7 V2 certified control specialist today! ... Informative, Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), R1","HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), Release 1",ELR, ELRR1 IG, This product page contains the Release 1 Informative Standard of HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health. If you are seeking the Release 2 Draft Standard for Trial Use o... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS LOI IG,Laboratory Order Interface, LOI The Laboratory Orders Interface Initiative focus on identifying the requirements, specification and standards, and on providing the implementation guidance for electronic ordering of laboratory test in the US Realm. The scope of the Labor... DSTU, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: S&I Framework Lab Results Interface, R1 - US",S&I Framework, laboratory results, LRI,Laboratory Results Interface This guide provides guidance on how to communicate laboratory result in general from a (reference) Laboratorys LIS to a system interested in lab results, e.g., EHR, Public Health, other Laboratory. It cover general lab resul... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "V 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders & Observations; Ambulatory Care Lab Result (ELINCS), Release 1" This HL7 Version 2.5.1 Ambulatory Care Laboratory Result (ELINCS) Implementation Guide provides guidance on how to apply the HL7 Version 2.5.1 standard for the electronic reporting of laboratory test result to electronic health recor... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS OO The Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide; Orders and Observations; Interoperable Laboratory Result Reporting to EHR (US Realm), Release 1 provides guidance on how to apply the Version 2.5.1 standard to the exchange of laboratory resul... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Test Compendium Framework, Release 2",eDOS IG,eDOS, AOE The content of the Laboratory Test Compendium Framework is a Laboratorys DOS. The content is owned by the sending laboratory for the purpose of being used by the compendium consumer to be able to order laboratory service and t... DSTU, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "V2.6 IG: Blood Bank Donation Services, R1" The HL7 Blood Bank Donation Services Implementation Guide U.S. Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission of information between system application component in a Blood Bank setti... Informative Section=1,Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Topic=Devices,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=V2MGMTGRP HL7 Version 2.9.1,V2.9.1 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Hosp,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE HL7 Detailed Clinical Models,DCM These first two Detailed Clinical Models (DCM) follow a generic UML format for the data element, datatype and code binding specifications, together with meta information (author, version, etc.) and medical knowledge. Of the original group of 5,... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=DSTU,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "V3 DAM: Allergies and Intolerances, R1" The Allergy and Intolerance Domain Analysis Model is broad, and is intended to unify a number of international model designed to deal with the documentation and interoperability of allergy and into... DSTU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "V3 DAM: Behavioral Health, R2","V3 DAM: Summary Behavioral Health Record, R1",BHA,BHA DAM The Behavioral Health Domain Analysis project is evaluating the currency and comprehensiveness of Health Level 7 (HL7) Behavioral Health and Social Service standard against emergent requirement in the United States (U.S.... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM HL7 DAM: BRIDG R4,V3 DAM: BRIDG R3,V3DAM: BRIDG R2,"HL7 V3 DAM: Biomedical Research Integrated Domain (BRIDG), R1",V3,BRIDG,DAM,BRIDG Model,Biomedical Research Integrated Domain Group Model The BRIDG Model is the result of a collaborative effort between CDISC, HL7, ISO, the US FDA, and the US NCI to build a Domain Information Model for Biomedical Research. These group have participated in the BRIDG development and a... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Cardiology,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3: Cardiology: Cardiology (Acute Coronary Syndrome) Domain Analysis Model, R1",ACS DAM,CARD Data standard support seamless interchange of electronic information within the healthcare environment. The purpose of the cardiovascular domain analysis model (CV DAM) is to facilitate collection of structured data during the care deliv... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "V3 DAM: Care Plan, R1",CP DAM, Care Plan DAM This project encompasses several year of discussion and work within the HL7 Patient Care Work Group in collaboration with several other team to produce artifact defining requirements, information models, contextual storyboards and defin... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 DAM: Clinical Trial Registration and Results (CTR&R), R1",CTR&R,V3,CTRR,DAM HL7 Version 3 Standard: Clinical Trial Registration and Results (CTR&R), Release 1 represents the behavioral and information requirement for the CTR&R domain. It serf a a tool for subject matter expert to exami... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Topic=Devices,Section=14,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HEALTHCAREDEVICES "V3 DAM: Detailed Clinical Models for Medical Devices, R1",Medical Device Interoperability, Detailed Clinical Models, Information Analysis, Domain Analysis Model, DCM4MD,DCM The objective of this specification are to use a Domain Analysis Model (DAM) in order to specify reusable Detailed Clinical Models (DCM) to describe the information exchanged by medical device with information systems. The DCMs are provi... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "Reaffirmation of V3 DAM: Diet and Nutrition Orders, Release 2","V3 DAM: Diet and Nutrition Orders, R2","V3 DAM: Diet and Nutrition Orders, R1",V3 DAM Nutrition Orders,Diet Order DAM, Nutrition DAM Standards for the electronic transmission and exchange of nutrition order including information on oral diets, enteral nutrition (tube feeding and infant formula) and oral nutritional supplements, along with food allergies, food intol... Informative, Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3 DAM: Emergency Medical Services, R1",EMS The standard is a Domain Analysis Model (DAM) specific to emergency medical service in the pre-hospital setting. The DAM is balloted a an informative document and used a a reference in subs... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE Health Concerns Healthcare delivery is becoming more complex. Patients, especially those with complex health issues, are treated by multi-disciplinary team of provider across care settings. Institutions may specialize in one clinical area or su... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V3 SAIF Conceptual Specification: Laboratory Orders, R1", This document provides the SAIF artifact that are relevant for the conceptual modeling, comparable to the Domain Analysis Model according to old methodology. The specification provides the foun... DSTU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Major Depressive Disorders, R1",MDD DAM These data element were developed from data submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in marketing application for drug to treat Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). They are meant to supp... Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=GAS,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Preoperative Anesthesiology, R1" The purpose of the Preoperative Anesthesiology Domain Analysis Model is to support the exchange and understanding of anesthesiology data by establishing standard definition and value for common anesthesiology data elements. The f... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "V3 DAM: Pressure Ulcer Prevention, R1", This Domain Analysis Model represents information used in assessing pressure ulcer risk, including existing pressure ulcers. Terminology concept are modeled explicitly. This model also includes preliminary work on pressure ulcer inter... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Schizophrenia, R1",Schizophrenia Domain Analysis, Schizophrenia DAM These data element were developed from data submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in marketing application for drug to treat Schizophrenia.. They are meant to support the collection of data during a patient encounter withi... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "HL7 V3 DAM: Exchange of Trauma Data, R1", This domain analysis model represents data element used in trauma registries. It is based on the registry element defined by the American College of Surgeonsin collaboration with 20 othe... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=DAM,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS vMR for CDS,vMR-CDS A Virtual Medical Record (vMR) is a data model for representing the data that are analyzed and/or produced by clinical decision support (CDS) engines. The goal of this project is to define HL7 vMR ... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "V3 DAM: Vital Records, R1" The HL7 Version 3 Domain Analysis Model: Vital Records (VR DAM) describes the workflow and stakeholder for transmitting birth and death data to and from U.S. vital record systems. The VR DAM desc... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3: EMS Domain Information Model, R1",EMS The standard is a Domain Information Model (DIM) specific to emergency medical service in the pre-hospital setting. The DIM is balloted a an informative document to be used a a reference in s... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2L3: Neonatal Care Report, R1",CDAR2 This implementation guide (IG) specifies a standard for electronic submission of neonatal care record (NCRs) in a Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 (R2) format. This facilitates electronic extraction of a subset of the C... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 V3 IG: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG R1, R2","HL7 aECG Implementation Guide, R1",V3,aECG,"annotated ECG Implementation Guide" This HL7 Version 3 implementation guide offer supplemental material for the January, 2004 annotated ECG (aECG), standard. This implementation guide is not complete in itself and should be used in conjunction with the HL7 aECG stand... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=HHSFR,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 3","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 4","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 1",Infobutton IG,Infobutton The Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) specification provide a standard mechanism for clinical information system to request context-specific clinical knowledge form online resources. This ha become a widely adopted appro... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 IG: Drug Stability Reporting R2, R3",V3,DSR This implementation guide for Drug Stability Reporting (eStability) describes the basic requirement needed for using the standard, and the requirement needed for submitting information to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) agency using... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 V3 IG: Canonical Pedigree (Family History) Interoperability, R1" The HL7 Clinical Genomics Family Health History (Pedigree) Model is a data standard for capturing,within a system, and transmitting family history between systems. This includes describing a patient full pedigree (family and f... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM V3 IG: SPL R3: FDA Content of Labeling,SPL,V3 IG This document provides technical conformance criterion for Structured Product Labeling (SPL) file based on the drug establishment registration and drug listing process at the United States Food and ... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ASD The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=1,Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV The Health Level Seven Version 3 (V3) Normative Editiona suite of specification based on HL7s Reference Information Model (RIM)provides a single source that allows implementers of V3 specification to work with the full ... Normative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EMERGENCYCARE "HL7 V3 Specification: Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems (DEEDS), R1",DEEDS, Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems This document expands the scope and update the original Center for Disease Control Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems. This comprehensive set of data element will serve a the content for the interchange format described above... Informative Section=20,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ORDERS,wg=SOA "HL7 Version 3 Specification: Ordering Service Interface, Release 1",Order Service The Ordering Service is intended to complement existing SOA service and the SAIF Behavioral Framework (BF) for HL7. It will provide a Service Functional Model (SFM) for ordering pharmacy, laboratory, radiology, consult and nutri... DSTU, Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3: Drug Stability Reporting, R2","V3: Drug Stability Reporting, R1",V3,eStability,DSR The HL7 Version 3 Drug Stability Reporting (eStability) standard standardizes the format and the type of information in Drug Stability Reports for drug: substances; products; and devices. The purp... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=FM Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Accounting and Billing R2,"V3: Account and Billing, R2","V3: Account and Billing, R1",AB,A&B,FIAB The HL7 Version 3 Accounting and Billing (AB) Messaging Standard, retired 2022, support the communication of acquired patient payor information and specific acquired charge for service to a patient/payer billing system. Examp... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3: Blood, Tissue, Organ; Donation, Release 1",V3 BTO The HL7 Blood Bank v3 Standard Universal Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission of information between system application component in a Blood Bank setting. While... DSTU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE Reaffirmation of V3 Care Provision DMIM R1,"V3: Care Provision, R1","HL7 V3: Care Provision Domain Information Model, R1",V3,CP The Care Provision Domain describes information structure and vocabulary used to communicate information pertinent to the care of living subjects, devices, geographic sites, and other physical entity by a responsible care provi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=DSTU_EXPIRED,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV "V3: Care Provision, R1: Allergies and Intolerance" DSTU (Expired) Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "V3: Care Provision: Assessment Scale, R1",Assessment Scale There are many score system in use in health care at large (Wikipedia). Many system are in use on an international, national or just hospital wide or individual practice level. Others are just for scientific purposes. Most interesting score... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE Reaffirmation of V3 Care Provision; Care Record R1,"V3: Care Provision, R1: Care Record Topic, R1",V3,CP The Care Provision Domain describes information structure and vocabulary used to communicate information pertinent to the care of living subjects, devices, geographic sites, and other physical entity by a responsible care provi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE Reaffirmation of V3 Care Provision; Care Transfer R1,"V3: Care Provision, R1: Care Transfer Topic, R1",V3,CP,CARETRANS The Care Provision Domain describes information structure and vocabulary used to communicate information pertinent to the care of living subjects, devices, geographic sites, and other physical entity by a responsible care provi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V3 Standard: Care Provision; Food and Medication Preferences, Release 1",Nutrition and Drug Preferences The HL7 v3 Care Provision Nutrition and Drug Preferences is a messaging specification intended to support and standardize the exchange of patient and resident preference related to food... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE Reaffirmation of V3 Care Provision; Queries Care Record R1,"V3: Care Provision; Care Record Queries Topic, R1",V3,CP The Care Provision Domain describes information structure and vocabulary used to communicate information pertinent to the care of living subjects, devices, geographic sites, and other physical entity by a responsible care provi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=FM "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Claims and Reimbursement, Release 4","V3: Claims and Reimbursement, R2","V3: Claims and Reimbursement, R3","V3: Cliams and Reimbursement, R4",C&R,CR The HL7 Version 3 Claims and Reimbursements Messaging Standard, retired in 2022, provides non-US realm support for generic, pharmacy, preferred accommodation, physician, oral health, vision care and hospital claim for eligibility, autho... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=DSS vMR-CDS Logical Model R2, vMR-CDS LM R2, vMR for CDS, vMR-CDS,vMR This standard specifies a data model for representing clinical data relevant to clinical decision support. The vMR is a data model for representing the data that are analyzed and/or produced by CDS engines. The term vMR ha h... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=AFFILDUED "HL7 Virtual Medical Record for Clinical Decision Support (vMR-CDS) Templates, Release 1 - US Realm","HL7 V3 Standard: Virtual Medical Record for Clinical Decision Support (vMR-CDS) Templates, Release 1 - US Realm","HL7 IG: Virtual Medical Record (vMR) Templates, R1",vMR-CDS Templates R1,vMR Templates The vMR is a data model for representing the data that are analyzed and/or produced by CDS engines. The term vMR ha historically been used in the CDS community to refer to a simplified repr... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Genomics; Pedigree, R1","V3: Clinical Genomics, R1: Pedigree",CG The HL7 Clinical Genomics Pedigree Model is a data standard for transmitting family health history between systems. This includes describing a patient full pedigree with disease and conditions, and the option to link genet... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC,wg=ORDERS,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Models for Allergies and Intolerances, R1",Allergies and Intolerances The Allergy and Intolerance Clinical Models unify a number of international model designed to deal with the documentation and interoperability of allergy and intolerance conditions. The use ... DSTU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Product_Type=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=CLINICALSTATEMENTS "V3: Clinical Statement Pattern CMETs, R1","V3: Clinical Statement Pattern, R1", Clinical Statement This standard is Retired; retained for historical reference at HL7 but withdrawn from ANSI 2022 June. The Clinical Statement model is designed to be used within multiple HL7 Version 3 domain models. Clinical State... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS,wg=CLINICALSTATEMENTS "Reaffirmation of V3: Clinical Statement Pattern, R1","V3: Clinical Statement Pattern, R1", The Clinical Statement model is designed to be used within multiple HL7 Version 3 domain models. Clinical Statement is intended to facilitate the consistent design of communication that convey clinical information to meet specific use c... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=DSTU,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3: Clinical Trial Registration and Results (CTR&R), R1",CTR&R,V3,CTRR HL7 Version 3 Standard: Clinical Trial Registration and Results (CTR&R), Release 1 focus on the development and maintenance of an HL7 V3 message in support of the global data exchange requirement brought about by the incre... DSTU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3 Standard: Common Product Model (CPM) CMETs, Release 4",Common Product Model, CPM The common product model is used to improve the alignment between the different representation of product used within the body of HL7 Version 3 models. One goal of this effort is to make it possible for there to be a single such ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Common Product Model (CPM) CMETs, Release 3",,CPM, Common Product Model The common product model is used to improve the alignment between the different representation of product used within the body of HL7 Version 3 models. One goal of this effort is to make it possible for there to be a single such ... Normative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "V3 Common Terminology Services, Release 1","V3 Common Terminology Services, R1",CTS PIM,CTS The HL7 International Common Terminology Services (HL7 CTS) defines an Application Programming Interface (API) that can be used by HL7 Version 3 software when accessing terminological content. It is intended to specify only ... Normative Section=20,Section=11,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Common Terminology Services (CTS), R2","V3 Common Terminology Services, Release 2",CTS2, CTS 2,CTS The goal of CTS2 is to provide a standardized interface for the use and management of terminologies. CTS2 provides a modular, common, and universally deployable set of behavior which can be used to manage set of termi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=HHSFR,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-Aware Retrieval Application (Infobutton); Knowledge Request, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval Application (Infobutton); Knowledge Request, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Context-aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton), Release 1",Infobutton,Infobutton Knowledge Request The Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) specification provide a standard mechanism for clinical information system to request context-specific clinical knowledge form online resources. This ha become a widely adopted appro... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 Decision Support Service, R2",DSS, DSS R2 A Decision Support Service take in patient data a the input and provides back patient-specific assessment and recommendations. A Decision Support Service facilitates the implementation of clinical decis... Normative Section=20,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SOA "HL7 Version 3 Specification: Event Publish & Subscribe Service Interface, R1",Healthcare Event Pub Sub, Event Subscription and Notification Service The Event Publish and Subscribe Service complement existing HL7 SOA service by providing a Service Functional Model (SFM) for services, component and system to subscribe to clinical event of interest and receive notice when new data ... DSTU, Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "GELLO, R2",GELLO GELLO, part of the HL7 Version 3 Normative Edition, is a standard query and expression language that provides a suitable framework for manipulation of clinical data for decision support in healthcare. The GELLO language can be used to build... Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE V3 HACC R3,"HL7 Version 3 Standard: Role-based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 2","Role-Based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 1",V3,RBAC,Healthcare Access Control Catalog,HACC,Permission Catalog,, ABAC, ACHPCAT The Healthcare (Security and Privacy) Access Control Catalog is a new standard extending the current normative HL7 Role-based Access Control (RBAC) Permission Catalog standard. The upda... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 V3 Standard: Healthcare, Community Services and Provider Directory",HCSPD The Healthcare, Community Services and Provider Directory specifies core functionality of a Services and Provider Directory that not only support semantic interoperability, but also valuable business initiative such a Wait List Manag... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PHER Reaffirmation of V3 Immunization R1,"V3: Immunization, Release 1" This domain describes communication of information about immunization: The process of inducing immunity to an infectious organism or agent in an individual or animal through vaccination. ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Cardiology,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Topic=Devices,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HEALTHCAREDEVICES,wg=ORDERS "V3: Implantable Device Cardiac, R1","V3: Implantable Device Cardiac, R2","V3: Implantable Device Cardiac, R2",IDC The HL7 Version 3 Implantable Device Cardiac (IDC) Follow-up Summary is a message model for describing an observation of an interrogator at a physical location who is performing an interrogation of a therapeutic medical device (boun... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTSAFETY "V3: Individual Case Safety Report, R2","V3: Individual Case Safety Report, R1","V3 IG: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report R1, Release 1",ICSR The Individual Case Safety Report (ICSR) capture information about adverse event and product problem that are reported to public health, patient safety/quality improvement organization or regulatory agencies. The ICSR messa... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "V3: Laboratory; Result, R1",LAB The HL7 Version 3 Normative Editions laboratory domain comprises the models, messages, and other artifact that are needed to support messaging related to the result or observation asso... Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "V3 Order Set Publication, R1",Order Sets Order set can organize and structure complex health care plan into useful unit of work for clinicians. An order within an order set can request any clinical activity including referral (requests for encounters), acts, suppl... DSTU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Type=STU,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Orders; Diet and Nutrition, R1",V3 Diet & Nutrition Orders; V3 Nutrition Orders Clinical Messages; V3 Nutrition Orders The HL7 v3 Nutrition Orders Standard Universal Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission and exchange of nutrition order including oral diets, enteral nutrition (tube feedi... Informative, STU Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Patient Administration CMETs, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration; Person Registry, Release 1","V3: Patient Administration; Patient Encounter, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration, DSTU Release 2; Person Registry Enhancement, Release 1","V3: Patient Administration, R1","V3: Patient Administration; Encounter Topics R2, DSTU R1",PA The Patient Administration standard defines the requirement and specification to support the interoperability among clinical and non-clinical system regarding patient encounter and administrative registries.... DSTU, Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Patient Administration; Person Registry Enhancement, Release 1",Patient Administration, Person and Patient Registry,PA The Person topic defines message exchanged with Person Registries. The Person information model defines common identifying and demographic data element that might be collected for person regardless of the role they play. The model... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Patient Administration; Patient Encounter, R1",PA, Encounter A core part of the Patient Administration domain, defines message for event collectively called ADT (admission, discharge and transfer) or Patient Encounter Management. This project completes definition of the HL7 V3 standard for Patie... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Patient Administration; Patient Registry, Release 1",PA The Patient topic defines message exchanged with Patient Registries. The Patient information model is not limited to persons; any type of living subject can be registered a a patient. The model includes full information about the l... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "V3: Personnel Management, R1",PM The Personnel Management Domain span a variety of clinical-administrative information function associated with organizations, individuals, animal and device involved in the delivery and support of healthcare services. The domai... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTSAFETY "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report, Part 1: the framework for adverse event reporting, Release 2",ICSR HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report ha two parts: Part 1: The Framework for Adverse Event Reporting, R2 ha been published by ANSI a ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP1, R2-2... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTSAFETY "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report, Part 2: Human pharmaceutical reporting requirement for ICSR, Release 2",ICSR HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacovigilance - Individual Case Safety Report ha two parts: Part 1: The Framework for Adverse Event Reporting, R2 ha been published by ANSI a ANSI/HL7 V3 ICSRP1, R2-2... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacy CMETs, Release 1","Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Pharmacy; Medication CMET, Release 1","V3: Pharmacy; Medication Order, Release 1",RX,V3: Pharmacy: Medication CMETs, R1,Pharmacy CMETS The Pharmacy domain cover community prescribing, discharge prescription and institutional medication orders. The model are intended to support the requirement of all jurisdictions. This standard will include support for p... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "V3: Pharmacy; Medication Dispense and Supply Event, Release 2","V3: Pharmacy; Medication Dispense and Supply Event, Release 1",RX,MDSE,Medication Dispense and Supply Event The Medication Dispense and Supply Event topic contains interaction that can be used to exchange information regarding the processing of prescriptions, usually by a pharmacy, including the pick-up of prescribed medication by the patie... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV "V3: Medication; Knowledge-Based Query, Release 1" This topic cover the issuing of query to medication knowledge base application for such information a medication monographs, regimen and therapies. The HL7 Version 3 Standard: Medi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "V3: Pharmacy; Medication Order, Release 2","V3: Pharmacy; Medication Order, Release 1",RX,Medication Order This revision of the initial topic extends the existing messaging for Order and Administration to cover Institutional settings. Since the 1st normative ballot of January 2013, numerous editorial fix have been applied, some narra... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "Withdrawal of V3: Medication Knowledge-Based Query, R1",Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Medication Statement and Administration Event R1,"V3: Pharmacy; Medication Statement and Administration Event, Release 1",RX,Medication Statement, Medication Administration This topic provides interaction for exchanging information about medication use for individual patients. The content in this topic includes information about medication use constructed from various source including: patie... Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=SECURE,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS); Access Control, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) - Access Control, Release 1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) - Access Control, PIM Level, Release 1",PASS,PASS ACS, PASS Access Control The purpose of this document is to describe the conceptual-level viewpoint associated with the business requirement that relate to the content, structure, and functional behavior of information important to the Access Control area of th... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CIC "V3: Public Health: Tuberculosis Domain Analysis Model, R1",TB DAM,TB The HL7 Version 3 Tuberculosis Domain Analysis Model (DAM) represents the clinical process associated with managing pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) from the point at which patient present themselves at treatment sites, through diagn... Informative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "ANSI/HL7 V3 REG RTLTM, R1-2011 (R2016)","V3: Registries, Release 1; Real Time Location Tracking Messaging",RTLT,REG,RTLTM A Real-Time Location System (RLTS) track the location of tag associated with patients, providers, and equipment within a healthcare facility. This document defines storyboards, trigger events, information model and inter... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Reaffirmation of Version 3 Standard: Regulated Studies - Annotated ECG, Release 1","Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG (aECG), Release 1","HL7 V3: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG, Release 1",V3,aECG The purpose of the HL7 Version 3 Annotated Electrocardiogram (aECG) standard is to provide a mean to systematically evaluate the ECG waveform and measurement locations. The US Food and Drug... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Regulated Product Submission, R2","V3: Regulated Product Submission, R1","V3: Regulated Product Submission, R2",RPS,V3 The scope of the standard is to define the message for exchanging information electronically between Regulators and Industry, and between set of regulators. The message provides the ability to desc... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Scheduling, R2","V3: Scheduling, R1",Patient Administration, Scheduling,SCHED Scheduling is both a domain and a process. As a domain, Scheduling requires a generic set of message and behavior to implement any number of Scheduling scenarios. As a process, Scheduling can offe... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM Shared Messages Release 3,"Shared Messages, R2","V3: Shared Messages, R1",COMT HL7 Version 3 Shared Messages are a work product produced for expressing common, useful and reusable message types. A Shared Message can be envisioned a a message type that is reusable in interaction in any of the domain within the HL7 stand... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM V3 SPL R8,Structured Product Labeling R8, SPLR8,SPL SPL release 8 (normative) is a fairly minor extension of the previous release of SPL, that all received extensive use in production, especially the release 1, 3, 4, 5 (DSTU and Normative), 6, and 7. In addition to labeling submi... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Structured Product Labeling, R1",SPL,V3 Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3: Structured Product Labeling, R2",SPL,V3 Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Structured Product Labeling, R3",SPL Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "Structured Product Labeling, R4",SPL The HL7 Version 3 Structured Product Labeling (SPL) specification is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of the content of authorized published information that accompanies any medicine licensed by a ... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS,wg=RCRIM HL7 Version 3: SPL R6,"HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Structured Product Labeling, Release 5",SPL,V3 IG SPL release 5 (normative) is an extension of the previous release of SPL, that all received extensive use in production, especially the release 1, 3, 4, and 5 (DSTU). In addition to labeling submissions, SPL ha been used since 2009 for r... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Structured Product Labeling (SPL), Release 6",SPL The Structured Product Labeling (SPL) specification is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of the content of authorized published information that accompanies any medicine licensed by a medicine licen... Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=DSTU,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 V3 Standard: Study Design: Structured Document, R1" A structured document capable of exchanging the human-readable text (i.e. the traditional text-based protocol document currently provided a either a paper document, or a pdf file) in addition to structured protocol data. Some of the requi... DSTU Section=20,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SOA "HL7 Version 3 Specification: Unified Communication Service Interface, R1",UCS The Unified Communication Service complement existing SOA service by providing a Service Functional Model (SFM) for delivering alerts, recommendations, and other notification using a variety of transport mechanism including email... DSTU, Normative Section=20,Family=V3,Type=DSTU,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ITS "HL7 IG: XML Implementation for Virtual Medical Record, R1",,vMR, vMR-CDS XML Specification R1 The vMR is a data model for representing the data that are analyzed and/or produced by CDS engines. The term vMR ha historically been used in the CDS community to refer to a simplified repr... DSTU, Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "V3 GELLO IG: CDS Model Definition Language for GELLO, R1","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Virtual Medical Record for Clincial Decision Support (vMR-CDS) for GELLO, Release 1",vMR-CDS for GELLO,VMR_GELLO A Model Definition Language for Clinical Decision Support (CDS) is a grammar for representing clinical information input and output that can be used by CDS engine and local clinical information systems. This model defin... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC ePrescribing,NCPDP The Version 2 NCPDP Electronic Prescribing Coordination Mapping Implementation Guide provides mapping requirement for electronic prescribing system using HL7 Versions 2.4 and later. It specifies functional electronic prescribing commu... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Implementation Guide for CDA R2 CCD The Continuity of Care Document (CCD) is a joint effort of HL7 International and ASTM. CCD foster interoperability of clinical data by allowing physician to send electronic medical information to other provider without loss of meani... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7/NCPDP Guidance: Consultant Pharmacist Consult Note Update, R1 - US Realm", The HL7/NCPDP Pharmacist Consultation Note guidance document address the unique pharmacy requirement when creating either C-CDA Consult Notes or C-CDA on FHIR Consultation Notes. Informative Section=20,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=CC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 Informative Document: Standardized Medication Profile, R1",medication profile, medication list,Medication Profile White Paper, Medication List This white paper identifies and defines the component of an interoperable medication profile for clinicians, patient and caregiver to use for the exchange of essential medication information duri... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 IG: Regulated Product Submission R2, Release 1",RPS,V3,IG The Version 3 Regulated Product Submission (RPS) Implementation Guide provides technical detail (conformance criteria) on using the Regulated Product Submission (RPS) standard. The RPS standard provides a common mean of exchange of do... Informative Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Education & Awareness HL7 Standards - Section 3: Implementation Guides This section is for implementation guide and/or support document created to be used in conjunction with an existing standard. All document in this section serve a supplemental material for a parent standard. Click a Standard to link to more detail. Filters Filter options: Ballot Type DSTU Informative Normative STU Current State Active Retired Stable Family Arden CDA Cross-paradigm EHR FHIR V2 V3 Product Type ANSI-approved ANSI-registered Technical Report Data Types Document Functional Profile Implementation Guide Methodology Specifications Services Specification Errata Standard Reference Materials Structures Tools Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) XML Schemas Realm Universal US Realm Stakeholder Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Emergency Services Providers Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions HIS Vendors Immunization Registries Lab Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors Quality Reporting Agencies Regulatory Agency Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Topic Attachments Cardiology Care Provision CCOW Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Clinical Statement Community-Based Health Decision Support Emergency Management Financial Management Healthcare Devices HHSFR Laboratory Materials Management Medical Records Nutrition Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Referral Personnel Management Pharmacy Public Health Regulated Products Regulated Studies Scheduling Security and Privacy SPL Terminology Work Group Administrative Steering Division Arden Syntax Biomedical Research and Regulation Clinical Decision Support Clinical Genomics Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Clinical Interoperability Council Clinical Quality Information Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) Conformance Cross-Group Projects Devices Electronic Health Records Emergency Care FHIR Infrastructure Financial Management Human and Social Services Imaging Integration Implementable Technology Specifications Infrastructure and Messaging Orders and Observations Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Empowerment Payer/Provider Information Exchange Work Group Pharmacy Public Health Security Services Oriented Architecture Structured Documents Templates Terminology Infrastructure Work Group Tooling V2 Management Group Filter Name Description Type Section=22,Family=ARDEN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=15,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN "HL7 Arden Syntax: Implementation Guide, Release 3","HL7 Arden Syntax IG, R2", The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems is a structured, executable formalism for the explicit representation of scientific, clinical, administrative, and other knowledge used in clinical decision support systems. Despite the r... Informative Section=22,Family=ARDEN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=15,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN The Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems is a structured, executable formalism for the explicit representation of scientific, clinical, administrative, and other knowledge used in clinical decision support systems. Despite the r... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Central Cancer Registries, Release 1",Cancer Registry CDA IG Population-based cancer surveillance is critical in North America for cancer control activity aimed at reducing the morbidity and mortality of cancer, the second leading cause of death in the United States (U.S.) and the leading cause... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Dental Data Exchange, R1", This implementation guide provides an HL7 CDA-based set of template defining the Dental Referral Note and Dental Consultation Note. These standardized document are intended to support bi-directional information exchange between a medic... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 Attachments IG CCDA Exchange, R3",Attachment Supplemental Guide,Supplemental Attachments Guide This implementation guide (Guide) defines the requirement for sending and receiving standards-based electronic attachments. It doe so by applying additional constraint onto standard in common use for clinical documentation and by defin... Informative, STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Terminology,Type=STU,Product_Type=Structures,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDAR2 IG:CCDA R1 Companion Guide, R2","CDAR2 IG:CCDA R1 Companion Guide, R1",C-CDA Companion Guide,C-CDA 2.1 Companion Guide,Companion Guide; C-CDA Online: A navigation website for C-CDA 2.1 The Companion Guide to Consolidated Clinical Document Archi... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=Clinical Statement,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 CDA R2 IG : International Patient Summary Template, Release 1",IPS An International Patient Summary (IPS) document is an electronic health record extract containing essential healthcare information intended for use in the unscheduled, cross-border care scenario, comprising at least the required eleme... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER,wg=ASD "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA: R2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Birth Defects Registries, R1",,Birth Defects Registry Document,Birth Defect More than 40 US state have population based birth defect surveillance programs. Many have mandated requirement for health care professional to report to the surveillance program. However, to-date a standard for elect... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDAR2 IG: Birth and Fetal Death Reporting, R1 STU R2","HL7 IG for CDAR2: Reporting Birth and Fetal Death Info from the EHR to Vital Records, R1 (see 1474)","HL7 IG for CDAR2: Reporting Birth and Fetal Death Info from the EHR to Vital Records, R1",BFDR, BFDR CDA, BFDR CDA IG, CDA for Birth and Fetal Death Reporting, Vital Records Birth and Fetal Death Reporting The Vital Records birth and fetal death reporting (BFDR) CDA had been first published a an STU in Feb, 2015 and expired in 2017. It provided a format for using HL7's Clinical Document Architecture to transmit medical/health infor... DSTU, STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Clinical Statement,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC,wg=ORDERS,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Infectious Disease, R1 - US Realm",C-CDA Supplemental Templates, C-CDA ID,Infectious Diseases, ID, Supplemental Templates for ID, Supplemental Templates for Infectious Diseases This guide defines optional addition to the C-CDA R2.1 Continuity of Care Document (CCD), Transfer Summary, and Discharge Summary standards. These additional template are available for use ... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE CDAR2 IG: C-CDA Supplemental Nutrition R1,,AN&D Nutrition Transitions of Care IG,Nutrition Care via C-CDA; Nutrition Transitions of Care IG, Nutrition C-CDA; Nutrition Care Plan This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element that are derived from requirement set forth by the Academy of Nutrition and ... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Patient Referral,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Pregnancy Status, R1 - US Realm",Pregnancy, Pregnancy Status, C-CDA Pregnancy Status, Supplemental Pregnancy Status,Pregnancy Status IG This implementation guide (IG) provides consistent guidance for capturing key pregnancy status information in healthcare information technology (HIT) product and contains optional supplemental pregnancy status template for curre... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA R2.1 Additional Templates (Volume 3) - for Advance Directives Templates,C-CDA Advance Directives Templates,C-CDA Vol3,Advance Directives Templates Advance Directive Templates are important component of the C-CDA standard, yet to date, use of these template in data exchange, sharing and retrieval of patient clinical and care planning information ha been optional. Optional requi... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDAR2 IG: C-CDA Additional Templates (Vol 3), R1",,C-CDA Supplemental Templates, C-CDA UDI This specification ha been retired. Please see: HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA Templates for Clinical Notes STU Companion Guide, Release 3 - US Realm for UDI related templates. STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=DSTU,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Clinical Statement,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Clinical Oncology Patient Transfer Summary, R1",ASCO, Breast Cancer Treatment Plan and Summary, BCTPS, Colon Cancer Treatment Plan and Summary, CCTPS, Oncology Treatment Plan and Summary,COTPS This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element for the Clinical Oncology Treatment Plan and Summary (COTPS) documents, whic... DSTU, STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Patient Summary Relevant and Pertinent (RnP) Data, Release 1",Relevant and Pertinent,RnP This guide is primarily focused on improving the relevance and pertinence of C-CDA document a experienced by the clinician, which mean a displayed or rendered. Other guides, incl... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=DSTU,Topic=Community-Based Health,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SECURE "HL7 IG for CDA() Release 2: Conveying Provenance Data, R1",DPROV, Data Provenance The Implementation Guide for CDA (R) Release 2: Data Provenance, Release 1, September 2014 is the result of collaborative effort between HL7 and the US Health and Human Services Office of National Coordinators Standards and Inter... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Emergency Medical Services; Patient Care Report, R3 - US Realm", Patient Care Report, Run Report This implementation guide support the provision of emergency medical service data from provider agency to hospital emergency department using the CDA standard. The clinical specification were developed by the National EMS Infor... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=10,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE,wg=PHER,wg=EMERGENCYCARE,wg=CIC "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Emergency Medical Services Run Report, R2","CDAR2 IG: Emergency Medical Services Run Report, R1",EMS, PCR, Run Report, Patient Care Report This implementation guide support the provision of emergency medical service data from provider agency to hospital emergency department using the CDA standard. The clinical specification were developed by the National EMS Infor... Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Type=STU,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: ePOLST Portable Medical Orders, R1 - US Realm",,ePOLST A CDA R2 implementation guide (US Realm) for the National POLST Portable Medical Orders form, building on the extensive analysis of data element and stakeholder engagement by National POLST (https://polst.org/). A POLST Portable Medic... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=Attachments,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 Attachments IG: CCDA Exchange; Periodontal Attachment, R1",Periodontal Attachment,AIS0011 This standard is retired and will no longer be maintained or improved by the HL7 community. The Periodontal attachment is used to convey information about periodontal related servi... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Implementation Guide: Sex and Gender Representation, Release 1",Gender Harmony These are the CDA template that align with the cross-paradigm implementation guide Gender Harmony - Sex and gender representation that provides definitive guidance on how to exchange clinical sex and gende... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE CDA R2 IG HAIRPT R3,HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocab... Normative, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Medication Therapy Management (MTM) Templates, R1",MTM CMR Take-away document; MTM CMS document,CDAR2,MTM This two volume guide support the documentation and communication need of the expanding Medication Therapy Management (MTM) service arena and the CMS Medicare Part D reporting and patient information requirement for MTM. ... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "HL7 IG for CDA R2: National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS), R1",NHCS, NAMCS, NHAMCS This standard is an HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Implementation Guide for representing data extracted from provider system a required by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Stati... DSTU, STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDA R2 IG: NHSN HAI Reports for Antimicrobial Use (AU) in LTCF, Edition 1 - US Realm",CDA R2 NHSN-HAI-LTC-AU This implementation guide (IG) specifies standard for electronic submission of Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) report to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) of the Centers for ... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDAR2 IG: NHSN HAI Reports for LTCF, R1 (HAI-LTCF-CDA), R1",HAI LTCF, NHSN HAI LTCF This implementation guide (IG) specifies standard for electronic submission of Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) report to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) of the Centers for ... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Healthcare Associated Infection Reports, R4 - US Realm",HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=MEDREC,Type=STU,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Orthodontic Attachment, Release 1 US Realm",,Orthodontic Attachment This standard is retired and will no longer be maintained or improved by the HL7 community. The purpose of this implementation guide is to provide a HL7 CDA-based set of template defi... STU Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Patient-Friendly Consent Directives, Release 1",Patient Friendly Language for Security and Privacy, PFL, The Patient Friendly Language for Consumer User Interfaces IG is sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and is a result of a focused effort to provide a plain language healthcare vocabulary for patient comprehension. This ... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDA R2 IG: Personal Advance Care Plan, R1",Personal Advance Care Plan, Personal Advance Care Plan Document, PACP, PACP Document The PACP document is a CDA document template designed to share advance directive information created by an individual to express his or her personal health goal and priorities, treatment intervention preference under certain health scena... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2 - Level 3: Personal Healthcare Monitoring Reports, Release 1",PHM,CDAR2,PHMR, health monitoring report The Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report (PHMR) is a document that carry personal healthcare monitoring information, or patient measurement data taken by consumer medical devices. The primary use case around which the PHMR ... Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "Reaffirmation of HL7 CDA R2 IG: Privacy Consent Directives, R1","HL7 IG for CDAR2: Consent Directives, Release 1",Privacy Consent, Authorization to Disclose,CDA Consent Directive This is a structured document specification to exchange signed Consent Directives. This specification will make use of the concept identified in the Composite Privacy Consent Directive - Domain Analysis Model - and the CDA R2 speci... Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER "CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Reporting, R2",Electronic Initial Case Report, eICR,CASERPT The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for electronic submission of electronic initial public health case report using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format. This imple... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Reporting, R2","HL7 IG for CDA R2: Public Health Case Reporting, Release 1","Public Health Case Reporting" The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for electronic submission of electronic initial public health case report using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format. This imple... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI HL7 CDA R2 IG: Quality Reporting Document Architecture Category III (QRDA III), "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Quality Reporting Document Architecture, Release 1", QRDA, QRDA III, QRDA Category III, Measure Report A QRDA CategoryIII report is an aggregate quality report. Each report contains calculated summary data for one or more measure for a specified population of patient within a particular health system over a specific period of time.... Normative, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=CQI "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Quality Reporting Document Architecture, Release 1",QRDA, Quality Report Document Architecture, Measure Report,QRDA Cat I STU5,QRDA I STU 5.3 This two-volume implementation guide (IG) describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element for Quality Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA) documents. The Institute of Medic... STU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Public Health Case Report R2 RR, R1",RR,Reportability Response The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to specify a standard for a response document for a public health electronic Initial Case Report (HL7 eICR v1.1) using HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 forma... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Trauma Registry Data Submission, R1",NTDB, NTDS, TRDS, Trauma Registry Data Standard, trauma registry This implementation guide support the transfer of data element defined by the American College of Surgeons Committee on Trauma for Trauma Registries in a CDA document. Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=CIC "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Trauma Registry Data Submission, R2",CDA R2 IG: Truama Registry Data Submission R2,,TRAUMAREG This document provides data to support submission from provider to the American College of Surgeons National Trauma Data Bank Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=10,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Reporting Death Info from the EHR to Vital Records, R1",Death Reporting,CDA VRDR,VRDR This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body element for U.S. Standard Certificate of Death Documents, which are derived from the 2003 Revision of the U.S. Standard Certi... DSTU, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=DSTU,Topic=Attachments,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 IG for CDA Release 2: Consolidated-CDA Additional Attachment Templates, Release 1", The purpose of this implementation guide (IG) is to provide guidance on a standardized, implementable, interoperable electronic solution to reduce the time and expense related to the exchange of clinical and administrative infor... DSTU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "Reaffirmation of HL7 Implementation Guide: UDI Pattern, R2",HL7 IG UDI R2,"HL7 XParadigm IG: UDI Pattern, R1",Unique Device Identifier, UDI, Pattern, "HL7 Version 3 Cross Paradigm Implementation Guide: Medical Devices and Unique Device Identification (UDI) Pattern, Release 1" The Unique Device Identifier (UDI) Pattern provides the guideline for exchanging UDI information associated with medical devices, initially implantable device in patients. This document will not give implementation guida... Normative Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 IG for CDA Release 2: Behavioral Health Assessment, R1",,Behavioral Health Data Exchange IG Behavioral Health EHRs must be capable of exchanging substance abuse and mental health information using all the applicable Meaningful Use standard IGs. Implementers need practical guidance on how to instantiate message and docum... Informative Section=22,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Product_Type=DOC,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 Cross-Paradigm IG: Medical Device Data Sharing, R1", This cross-paradigm Implementation Guide (IG) is intended to support implementers and enable EHRs to exchange standards-based messages, documents, and resource with other EHR system using HL7 Meaningful Use IGs and emerging IGs .... Informative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Family=EHR,Topic=LABORATORY,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 EHR-S IG: S&I Framework Laboratory Results Interface (LRI) Functional Requirements, R1",EHR-S FR for LRI, Functional Requirements for LRI This document ha been developed through the HHS/ONC Standards and Interoperability (S&I) Framework EHR-S Functional Requirements IG-Labs Work Group. This work is part of a larger effort, the ... STU Section=11,Section=22,Family=EHR,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC "HL7 EHR-S IG: Phamacist/Pharmacy Provider Functional Profile for Community Practice, R1",Pharmacy EHR Companion Guide;,Pharmacist/Pharmacy EHR IG for Community Practice The document provides guidance on applying the Pharmacy/Pharmacist EHR Functional Profile, R1, specifically to the community pharmacy practice setting. Informative Section=22,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 FHIR IG: Minimal Common Oncology Data Elements (mCODE), R1 - US Realm",,mCODE mCODE short for Minimal Common Oncology Data Elementsis an initiative intended to assemble a core set of structured data element for oncology electronic health record (EHR... STU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: SMART Web Messaging, R1",smart web messaging, SMART Web Messaging enables tight UI integration between EHRs and embedded SMART apps via HTML5s Web Messaging. SMART Web Messaging allows application to push unsigned orders, note snippets, risk scores, or UI sugge... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Bidirectional Services eReferrals (BSeR), Release 1",Referral, BSeR,BSeR FHIR IG The Bidirectional Services eReferral (BSeR) FHIR implementation guide provides guidance for using the HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) standard a an exchange format for clinical and non-clinical service requests. It is a ... STU Section=22,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR flat fhir, bulk, ndjson, export This Implementation Guide defines secure FHIR export Operations that use this capability to provide an authenticated and authorized client with the ability to register a a backend service and retrieve all data in a FHIR server, data on all p... STU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Emergency Management,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 FHIR Profile: C-CDA, R1",ccda on fhir,C-CDA on FHIR, CCDA on FHIR Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) is one of the most widely implemented implementation guide for CDA and cover a significant scope of clinical care. Its target of the common/essential elem... STU Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: Cancer Electronic Pathology Reporting, R1 - US Realm",,Cancer path reports,CA ePath Report,ePath on FHI This project us FHIR to support structured electronic collection and exchange of cancer pathology information between a LIS and CCR using either of two approaches: one is directly from an LIS ... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: MedMorph Cancer, R1", The MedMorph Central Cancer Registry Reporting Content IG specifies how the MedMorph RA IG is leveraged to enable health care organization to implement Central Cancer Reporting Use Cases. This standard facilitates autom... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Attachments,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Data Exchange (CDex), R1",Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange (CDex) - STU1 Release,Da Vinci Clinical Data Exchange, Provider to Payer Data Exchange,CDex This IG provides detailed guidance that help implementers use FHIR-based interaction to support specific exchange of clinical data between provider and payer (or other providers). This guide document Direct Query, Task Based and Attac... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "FHIR IG: Immunization CDS, R1", Clinical Decision Support for Immunizations is increasingly being used in health information system to indicate which vaccination a patient is due for next. Many of these expert system are buil... STU Section=22,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 FHIR IG: CG, R1",genomics, genetics, dna, variant,GenomicsReporting IG,Genomics Reporting Implementation Guide, CG IG Genomics is a rapidly evolving area of healthcare that involves complex data structures. There is significant value in sharing this information in a way that is consistent, computable and that can accommodate ongoing evolu... STU Section=22,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Guidelines, R1",CPG,CPG-on-FHIR The FHIR Clinical Guidelines Implementation Guide (CPG IG) provides a mean of creating a computable representation of a narrative clinical guideline that is faithful to guideline intent and supp... STU Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: CDISC Lab Semantics, R1","CDISC SDTM and CDASH mapping to FHIR for laboratory data",CDISC LAB IG FHIR provides an effective standard for site and sponsor to utilize in exchanging clinical research laboratory data. The end-to-end process includes site data storage, site data preparation/transformation, production of FHIR forma... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: CodeX Radiation Therapy Treatment Data (RTTD), R1",,RTTD There is a demonstrated need to establish data standardization for RT end-of-treatment summaries, in-progress summaries, and supporting clinical detail to supplement these summary reports. The CodeX Radiation Therapy (CodeX RT) Imple... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Common Data Model Harmonization (CDMH), R1",,CDMH The Common Data Models Harmonization (CDMH) FHIR Implementation Guide (IG) will focus on mapping and translating observational data extracted for Patient Centered Outcome Research (PCOR) and other purpose into FHIR format. The proje... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: Consumer-facing Real-time Pharmacy Benefit Check, R1",RTPBC,Real Time Pharmacy Benefit Check Using RTPBC, a patient can learn how their medication will be covered at the pharmacy, including out of pocket cost and any coverage restriction or requirement that might apply. STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Coverage Requirements Discovery, R1",CRD, Payer requirement Provides a mechanism for healthcare provider to discover guidelines, pre-authorization requirement and other expectation from payor organization related to a proposed medication, procedure or other service assoc... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIMI "HL7 FHIR IG: COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library, R1 - US Realm",,COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library The IG is a library of commonly used FHIR profiles, not specific to any use case. See the specification athttp://hl7.org/fhir/us/covid19library/informative1.... Informative Section=22,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR IG: Data Exchange for Quality Measures, R1",DEQM, Data Exchange for Quality Measures The purpose of this implementation guide is to support value based care data exchange in the US Realm. It describes three group of quality reporting scenarios. The first group is exchange scenario which focus on exchanging subset of the data ... STU Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 FHIR IG: Data Segmentation for Privacy (DS4P), R1",,FHIR DS4P Provides FHIR guidance for applying security label with coded tag for use in access control system governing the collection, access, use, and disclosure of the target FHIR Resource(s) a requ... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS,wg=FM,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: PDex Drug Formulary, Release 1 - US Realm",DaVinci PDex Formulary This project defines a FHIR interface to a health insurer's drug formulary information for patients/consumers. A drug formulary is a list of brand-name and generic prescription drug a health insurer agrees to pay for, at least parti... STU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 FHIR IG: Dental Data Exchange, R1","Dental Referral",Orthodontic,Periodontal This implementation guide provides the FHIR R4 artifact necessary to construct a Dental Referral Note Bundle and Dental Consultation Note Bundle. These standardized document are intended to support bi-directional information exchange betwe... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS "HL7 FHIR IG: Digital Insurance Card, R1 - US Realm",US CARIN Digital Insurance Card (DIC),carin-digital-insurance-card This IG developed artifact (FHIR implementation guides, code mappings, reference implementations, etc) to retrieve proof of insurance coverage information via FHIR REST API when requested or shared by a Patient in order to creat... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "FHIR IG: eCR, R1-US Realm",Electronic Case Report, eCR, Reportability Response, RR, eICR, Electronic Initial Case Report The FHIR Implementation Guide (IG) specifies a US Realm FHIR electronic Case Reporting (eCR) implementation guide. It profile FHIR for electronic initial case report (eICR), Reportability Response and trigger code / business logic... STU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HSSWG "HL7 FHIR IG: Electronic Long-Term Services & Supports (eLTSS), R1 - US Realm",eltss,eLTSS FHIR IG The electronic Long-Term Services and Supports (eLTSS) Implementation Guide (IG) is based on FHIR R4. It wa developed to support exchange of data generated during the planning and provision of long-term service and support and is cu... STU Section=22,Topic=SPL,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Electronic Medicinal Product Information, R1",ePI,emedicinal-product-info A FHIR Implementation Guide that allows for the exchanging of medicinal product information between computer system based on FHIR. STU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 FHIR IG: FAIRness for FHIR, R1",FHIR4FAIR. FAIR,FHIR4FAIR The FHIR for FAIR Implementation Guide provides guidance on how the HL7 FHIR standard can be used for supporting the implementation and the assessment of the FAIR principle for health data. ... STU Section=22,Product_Type=TOOLS,Type=NORMATIVE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: FHIR Shorthand, R1",FSH FHIR Shorthand (FSH) is a domain-specific language for defining FHIR artifact involved in creation of FHIR Implementation Guides (IG). The goal of FSH is to allow Implementation Guide (IG) crea... Normative, STU Section=22,Topic=CCOW,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Decision Support,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=INM "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIRCast, R1",FHIRcast The FHIRcast specification describes the APIs used to synchronize disparate healthcare applications' user interface in real time, allowing them to show the same clinical content to a user (or group of users).... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: MedMorph Surveys, R1",MedMorph Health Care Surveys Content IG The Health Care Surveys Content Implementation Guide (IG) specifies how the MedMorph Reference Architecture (RA) IG is leveraged to enable health care organization to implement Health Care Surveys Use Cases outlined in th... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 FHIR IG: Health Record Exchange (HRex) Framework, R1",HRex A foundational implementation guide that defines core profiles, terminologies, methodology and other guideline that are used by other - and in some case all Da Vinci implementation guides. ... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 FHIR IG: Healthcare Associated Infection Reports, R1",HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining FHIR STU 3. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocabulary expert and FHIR ... STU Section=22,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HSSWG "HL7 FHIR IG: Human Services Directory, R1 - US Realm",HSDS The FHIR IG for the Human Service Resource and Provider Directory, is a US Realm published standard, and an intended companion guide to the PDEX Plan-Net Provider Directory. The Human Service Resource and Provider Directory focus on requi... STU Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: Hybrid/Intermediary Exchange, R1",Hybrid / Intermediary Exchange, Intermediary Exchange,exchange-routing, FAST The Hybrid / Intermediary Exchange FHIR implementation guide provides guidance enabling FHIR REST interaction across one or more intermediary using a passive approach in which the intermediary is passing through the i... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: ICHOM Breast Cancer PCOM Set, Release 1",ICHOM PCOM This Implementation Guide simplifies the effort of healthcare provider organization to collect data needed for the ICHOM patient centered outcome measure for breast cancer, by defining a stan... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PAFM FAST Identify This Implementation Guide provides guidance that can be used to enhance current workflow that support patient matching and Digital Identity, and envisions a longer term path for both providing more... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: IHE SDC eCC, R1",IHE SDC/eCC on FHIR Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) Structured Data Capture (SDC) on FHIR us a form-driven workflow to capture and transmit encoded data by creating FHIR Observations. This IG is mostly used for converting College of Ameri... STU Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: IHE SDC eCC, R1",,IHE SDC/eCC on FHIR Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) Structured Data Capture (SDC) on FHIR us a form-driven workflow to capture and transmit encoded data by creating FHIR Observations. This IG is mostly used for converting College of Ameri... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: International Patient Access (IPA), R1",IPA The International Patient Access (IPA) standard enables regulators, empower patients, guide app developers, and promise greater consistency across country for multinational apps and FHIR servers. ... STU Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=Clinical Statement,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: International Patient Summary, R1",IPS An International Patient Summary (IPS) document is an electronic health record extract containing essential healthcare information about a subject of care. The IPS dataset is minimal and non-exhaustive; specialty-agnostic and condi... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER mihr, MMM, Maternal Health for Research he guide focus on longitudinal maternal care, which includes antepartum (including pre-pregnancy), intrapartum, and postpartum care of a pregnant woman. It defines how maternal cohort can be evaluated for research, from which data ... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: MedMorph, R1",MedMorph Reference Architecture (RA) IG,MedMorph The goal of the MedMorph project is to develop and pilot a scalable and extensible standards-based reference architecture. This reference architecture will enable clinical data exchange with electronic system (e.g., EHRs) and publi... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Medicolegal Death Investigation (MDI), R1 - US Realm",MDI Standards and guidance on the use of FHIR resource for exchange of death investigation information between medical examiner/coroner case management systems, jurisdictional electronic death registration system (EDRS), toxicology and other... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Risk Based Contract Member Identification, Release 1 - US Realm", The implementation guide defines the mechanisms, resources, profile and extension required to exchange Member Attribution Lists. The Member Attribution Lists enable provider and payer organization to create patient list for Value... STU Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: Military Service History and Status, R1", This implementation guide design document is intended to create a set of profile and extension to support Military Service History and Status reporting consistent with US regulatory requirement (i.e. Title 38 Veteran Benefits) and exten... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: NHSN Adverse Drug Event Hypoglycemia, R1",NHSN ADE,NHSN-ADE This IG support electronic submission of adverse drug event (ADE) data to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). The project establishs an electronic submission standard that is vendor-neutral that leverage existing workf... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "FHIR R4 IG: HAI-LTCF-FHIR, R1",HAI LTCF, NHSN HAI LTCF This implementation guide (IG) specifies standard for electronic submission of Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) report to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) of the Centers for ... STU Section=22,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: NHSN Inpatient Medication Administration, R1",NHSN Med Admin, MedAdmin, NHSN MedAdmin, NHSN Medication Administration This IG support electronic submission of line-level medication administration data to the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). The project establishes an electronic submission standard that is vendor-neutral that leverage exist... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTS "HL7 FHIR IG: Advance Directives Interoperability (ADI), R1",,pacio-adi The PACIO ADI implementation guide (IG) describes how to use existing HL7 FHIR standard to create, update, share, verify, and exchange information about an individual's advance medical goals, preferences, and priority for c... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Functioning, Release 1 - US Realm", The Personal Functioning and Engagement (PFE) IG support the exchange of information related to a person ability to participate in activity and interact with their community and the environment around them.... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Community-Based Health,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 FHIR IG:PACIO Re-assessment Timepoints, R1 - US Realm",,pacio-rt The Re-Assessment Timepoints implementation guide (IG) describes a mean to break up extended Post-Acute admission into consumable block that can reflect the evolution of care over time of the enco... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Patient Cost Transparency, R1 - US Realm",PCT This IG provides detailed guidance to support provider and payer exchanging financial information for specific service and item using FHIR-based standards. This exchange involves a provider submitting a Good Faith Estimate (GFE) to a pay... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: ePayer Data Exchange (ePDx), Release 1",PDEX, Payer Data Exchange, Da Vinci PDEX Using Payer Data Exchange enables payer to publish Financial and clinical data to Consumers and other payer using US Core clinical resource and additional profile that are specific to the paye... STU Section=22,Family=FHIR,Topic=Devices,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=HEALTHCAREDEVICES "FHIR IG: PCD, R1",,DoF-PHD IG This Implementation Guide (IG) defines the use of FHIR resource to convey measurement and supporting data from communicating Personal Health Devices (PHDs) to receiving system for electronic medi... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 FHIR IG: C-CDA R2.1; Pharmacist Care Plan, Release 1 - US Realm",Pharmacist Care Plan, PeCP This implementation guide specifies FHIR profile and other artifact for the Pharmacist Care Plan, which are derived from requirement set forth by the Pharmacy Health Information Technology (HIT) Collaborative and the National Counc... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Physical Activity, Release 1 - US Realm", This implementation guide cover the full spectrum of interoperability relating to assessing and enhancing patient physical activity levels. It is intended to support communication between clinical and similar system that can diagnose physi... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Post-Acute Care Cognitive Status, R1",PACIO Cognitive Status The PACIO Cognitive Status Implementation Guide (IG) is for exchanging cognitive status and mental functioning observation primarily involving post-acute care (PAC) transition between various healthcare settings, including ambul... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: Post-Acute Care Functional Status, R1",PACIO Functional Status The PACIO Functional Status Implementation Guide (IG) is for exchanging mobility, self-care, and domestic life observation primarily involving post-acute care (PAC) transition between various heal... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Authorization, Release 1",Prior Authorization, PAS,FHIR IG PAS, R1 The goal of Prior Authorization Support is to define FHIR based service to enable a provider's system, at point of service, to request authorization (including all necessary clinical information to support the request) and recei... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Transfusion and Vaccination Adverse Event Reporting, Release 1 - US Realm",ICSR AE Reporting The FHIR Implementation Guide provides a set of profile for detection, validation, reporting, and ultimately recording/persisting Adverse Events associated with blood transfusion and vaccinations. ... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CIC "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Registry Extraction and Data Submission (CREDS), R1 - US Realm",CREDS This guide profile how a registry say what need to be sent, and how a healthcare provider organization can use that to automate the collection and formatting the data into a submission, conforming to registry or FHIR imple... STU Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI "HL7 FHIR IG: Quality Measures, Release 1",FHIR QMIG, FHIR QM,Quality Measures The Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resource (FHIR) Quality Measure Implementation Guide (this IG) describes an approach to representing electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs) using the FHIR Clinical Reasoning Module and C... STU Section=22,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=FHIR,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=EHR "HL7 FHIR IG: Record Lifecycle Event (RLE), R1 - US Realm",,RLE, ehrsrle This Implementation Guide offer a methodology to support trusted electronic health record (EHR) and personal health record (PHR) management using HL7 Fast Health Interoperable Resources (FHIR). This approach is based on the Recor... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Retrieval of Real World Data for Clinical Research, R1",RWD A FHIR Implementation Guide that defines FHIR profile that can be used to retrieve relevant research data from Real World Data source specifically Electronic Health Record (EHR) system - and ultimately transform that ... STU Section=22,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FM "HL7 FHIR IG: Risk Based Contract Member Identification, Release 1 - US Realm",davinci-atr The implementation guide defines the mechanisms, resources, profile and extension required to exchange Member Attribution Lists. The Member Attribution Lists enable provider and payer organization to validate enrollment in Value... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 FHIR IG: SDOH Clinical Care, R1",SDOH, Social Determinants of Health This IG defines focus on the exchange of information related to social determinates of health (such a Food Insecurity, Housing Instability, and Transportation). The IG defines FHIR Profiles for Observation, Condition, Goals, Task,... STU Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=SECURE "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: UDAP Security for Registration, Authentication, and Authorization, Release 1",,udap-security This implementation guide describes how to extend OAuth 2.0 to support secure and scalable workflow for business-to-business (B2B) apps that implement the client credential flow or authorization code flow.... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Situational Awareness for Novel Epidemic Response (SANER), R1",SANER, resource availability reporting The Situational Awareness for Novel Epidemic Response Implementation Guide enables transmission of high level situational awareness information from inpatient facility to centralized data repo... STU Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: SMART App Launch, Release 1",SMART, SMART on FHIR SMART App Launch 2.2.0 defines a foundational pattern based on OAuth 2.0 for client application to authorize, authenticate, and integrate with FHIR-based data system (e.g., Electronic Health Record system, Patient Portal, or Be... STU Section=22,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR() Profile: Structured Data Capture (SDC), R1", This implementation guide is intended to support clinical system in the creation and population of form with patient-specific data. It defines a mechanism for linking question in form to pre-defined data element to enable system to autom... Section=22,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Regulated Products,Topic=Patient Referral,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Family=FHIR,Topic=Devices,Type=STU,Topic=Emergency Management,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: Structured Data Capture (SDC), R3","HL7 FHIR IG: Structured Data Capture (SDC), Release 1",,SDC This implementation guide is intended to support clinical system in the creation and population of form in the healthcare domain. It refines and expands the content in the base FHIR specification to provide additional guidance on:&n... STU Section=22,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=FHIR "HL7 FHIR IG: Subscription R5 Backport, R1",Subscriptions,Subscription Backport IG, R5 to R4 Subscriptions The Subscription R5 Backport Implementation Guide enables server running FHIR R4B to implement a subset of R5 Subscriptions in a standardized way. The goal of publishing this guide is to define a standard metho... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=INM "HL7 FHIR IG: Alerts, R1",Da Vinci Alerts, Da Vinci Notifications, Da Vinci Unsolicited Notifications, Alerts, Notifications, Unsolicited Notifications, Alerts This implementation guide describes a framework method for the communication of relevant notification to support the real-time exchange of information that impact patient care and value based or risk based services. Providers and Payers may n... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Public Health Profiles Library, R1 - US Realm",USPHPL, USPH Profiles The US Public Health Profiles Library (USPHPL) is a collection of reusable architecture and content profile representing common public health concept and patterns. It is intended a a complement to the US Core Implementation Guide (US Core)... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Vital Records Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDR), R1",BFDR, BFDR FHIR, FHIR for Birth and Fetal Death Reporting This is a FHIR IG that defines birth and fetal death reporting in the USA. Birth and fetal death reporting includes the transmission of data from health care provider to jurisdictional Vital Reco... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: Vital Records Common Library, R1 - US Realm",Vital Records Common Profile Library, Vital Records Common Profiles This guide is a FHIR Resources Library to support the need of multiple Vital Records Implementation Guides. It doe not provide any use case or scenario specific content or additional guidance on how to use these artifacts, but serf a a ... STU Section=22,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Vital Records Mortality and Morbidity Reporting, Release 1",VRDR The VRDR FHIR IG provides guidance regarding the use of FHIR resource a a conduit for data required in the bidirectional exchange of mortality data between State-run Public Health Agencies (PHA) Vital Records office and U.S. Natio... STU Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 FHIR IG: Vital Signs, R1",,Vital Signs Vital sign are collected on nearly every patient encounter. Oftentimes, the clinician need to know the patient position, device, body location or method the measure were taken. Blood pressure a a component of vital sign also... STU Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=DSTU,Family=FHIR,Section=12,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=INM "HL7 FHIR() Profile: Data Access Framework (DAF), Release 1",DAF, Data Access Framework The Data Access Framework Initiative identifies and recommends standard for the interoperable representation and transmission of data using the notion of a Query Stack which modularizes the various layer of the Data Access Frame... DSTU Section=22,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Patient Referral,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER ODH This Implementation Guide contains profile to implement support for Occupational Data for Health (ODH). ODH is primarily designed to facilitate clinical care, including population health; ODH also can be used to support public healt... STU Section=22,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Product_Type=Structures,Section=12,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC Pharmacy Meds; US Meds,Pharmacy, Medication, Medication Order, Prescription, Medication Administration, Medication Statement, Dispense, Medication Dispense, PDMP This FHIR Implementation Guide ha been withdrawn and should not be considered for use. The Guide underwent an HL7 ballot but the comment from that ballot have not been reconciled and no further work ha been done on the guide since that ballo... STU Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Adverse Event Clinical Research R4 Backport, R1",Adverse Event Clinical Research Profile R4 Backport This guide provides a baseline profile on the FHIR AdverseEvent Resource suitable for Clinical Research. The profile serf a foundational specification to meet general need in communicating serious and non-serious adverse event... STU Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 FHIR IG: At-Home Test Report, Release 1 - US Realm",At-Home Testing This implementation guide (IG) is for use in transmitting At-Home In-Vitro Test result to local, state, territorial and federal health agencies. It wa developed a part of a collaborative project with the NIH/NIBIB, ONC, a vendo... STU Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Clinical Study Schedule of Activities, R1", The core of this project is to define a usable pattern for a Clinical Trial Schedule of Activities structure using FHIR Resources and Processes, such that: it can be shared STU Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Single Institutional Review Board Project (sIRB), Release 1",sIRB Data standard to move data and document from clinical research site to a single ethic review board in support of the NIH Policy on the Use of a Single Institutional Review Board for Multi-Site Research. ... STU Section=22,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Product_Type=Specification Errata,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "HL7 FHIR IG: Adverse Event Clinical Research, R1",Adverse Event Clinical Research Profile This guide provides a baseline profile on the FHIR AdverseEvent Resource suitable for Clinical Research. The profile serf a foundational specification to meet general need in communicating serious and non-serious adverse event... STU Section=22,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Topic=Devices,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=FHIR,wg=CGP "HL7 FHIR IG: US-Core, R1 STU4",DAF, Data Access Framework, US-Core, US Core, USCore, USCDI The US Core Implementation Guide (available at http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU6.1) is based onFHIR Version R4and defines the minimum conformance requirement for accessing pati... STU Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DOC,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=EHR,wg=PATIENTCARE,wg=SECURE,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Guidance: Provenance Basics for C-CDA and FHIR, Release 1 - US Realm",Provenance The Basic Provenance Informative guide provides the functional and technical guidance for communicating Minimum Viable Provenance in CDA, and FHIR, when information is exchanged. ... Informative Section=22,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Product_Type=TRANS,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Regulated Products,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ITS,wg=SOA "HL7 Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R2 STU1","HL7 Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R1","HL7 V3: Health Services Platform (HSP) Marketplace, R1",Health Service Marketplace,HSP,Marketplace The Marketplace API specification serf a a building block for orchestrating the exchange of such service and executable knowledge. Products deployed in an enterprise architecture are constituent building block in a larger infor... STU Section=22,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLAIMS OID,OIDs The purpose of the HL7 Implementation Guidance for Unique Object Identifiers (OIDs), Release 1 document is to describe how to manage the various value needed to provide global uniqueness for identifier used for patients, docum... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=ARDEN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=15,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN "HL7 IG for Arden Syntax, R1", This implementation guide will help knowledge engineers, clinicians, administrators, computer programmer and others use the Arden Syntax to create clinical decision support (CDS) solutions. This includes guidance on how to repre... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Attachments,Section=10,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CLAIMS,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Attachment Specification: Supplement to Consolidated CDA Templated Guide, Release 1",Consolidated CDA,C-CDA,CCDA This informative standard is intended to provide guidance in implementing the C-CDA for attachment purposes, including but not limited to claims/encounters, referrals, prior-authorizations, post-adjudicated claim audit... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=DSTU,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Consult Notes, Release 1",CDAR2 This implementation guide (IG) (currently a DSTU) describes how HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 is used to record information for a Consult Note. The Consult Note may contain both narrative and coded data. For t... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: History & Physical Reports, Release 1" This Draft Standard for Trial Use (DSTU) describes how The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 is used to record information for a History and Physical Note. The History and Physical Note may contain both narra... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=10,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "CDAR2 IG: Patient Authored Documents, R1",PGD Header, "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Patient Authored Documents, Release 1", Patient Authored Document The integration of patient generated health data (PGHD) into HIT is an important change to the HIT ecosystem. Although patient have long been the source of information recorded in the EHR,... Informative Section=11,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Plan-to-plan PHR Data Transfer, Release 1",CDAR2 This document describes constraint on the Health Level Seven International (HL7) Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 - Continuity of Care Documents (CCD) specification to support personal health record data ... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US Implementation Guide for CDA R2 L1 CRS,Implementation Guide for CDA R2 L2 CRS,Implementation Guide for CDA R2 L1-2 CRS The Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2 Level 1 and 2 Care Record Summary (US realm)describes constraint on the CDA Header and Body element for Care Record Summary docu... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 2 - US Realm",HAI, NHSN HAI This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocab... Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=DSTU,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Care Record Summary R2; Discharge Summary, R1",CRS,CDAR2 The CDA Implementation Guide for Care Record Summary, Release 2, Discharge Summary provides disparate hospital system a standard format to report back to a primary care provider or other party interested in the patient's hospital care.... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Topic=Clinical Statement,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: CDA Framework for Questionnaire Assessments, Release 1",CDAR2 This specification ha been retired and will be retained for historical purposes. The intent of the current project is two-fold: carry forward the Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2 CDA Framework for Questionnaire Ass... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=DSTU,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Digital Signatures and Delegation of Rights, Release 1",CDA Digital Signature Implementation Guide The Digital Signature and Delegation of Rights Implementation Guides provide a standardized method of applying Digital Signatures to CDA documents. The standard provides for multiple signers, signer declaration of their... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Exchange of Clinical Trial Subject Data; Patient Narratives, Release 1" The scope of this CDA implementation guide is limited to the exchange of patient narratives, which are created a a summary document during the conduct of a clinical trial. The CDA Implementation Guide will focus on a constrained datas... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Genetic Testing Reports, Release 1",GTR The purpose of this CDA R2 Implementation Guide is to specify a standard for genetic testing reports, targeted at both human readability and machine processability. Genetic test have recently become an important tool in clinical care that ... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: Healthcare Associated Infections Reports, Normative R1", This project developed an implementation guide constraining CDA Release 2. The implementation guide support electronic submission of HAI data to the National Healthcare Safety Network. CDC provided NHSN developers, vocab... Normative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: HIV/AIDS Data Set Report, R1", This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture Release 2 (CDA R2) header and body for an HIV/AIDS service report. The primary use case for this guide is the Ryan Whit... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=10,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Long-Term Post-Acute Care Summary, R1" This guide describes the requirement to create a Long-Term Post-Acute Care (LTPAC) Summary Clinical Document Architechture (CDA) document. It leverage the CDA template in the HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2.0, Conso... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDA R2: CDA Framework for Questionnaire Assessments, Release 1",CDAR2 This Implementation Guide (IG) facilitates a standard electronic communication for electronic submission to CDA of their Questionnaire Assessments. These allow healthcare facility and provider a standard way to communicate report in an in... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Structured Form Definition Document, R1",Questionnaire, Survey, PROM The purpose of a Questionnaire Form Definition document is to capture the health survey question or question set to be administered to a patient. Questionnaire Form Definition document enable the definition of quest... Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=10,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Questionnaire Response Document, R1",Questionnaire, Survey, PROM The purpose of a Questionnaire Response document is to capture the health survey answer or answer set to question that have been administered to a patient. Questionnaire Response document enable the capture of response for surve... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=PHER,wg=CQI "HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Ambulatory Healthcare Provider Reporting to Central Cancer Registries, Release 1",Cancer Registry CDA IG Population-based cancer surveillance is critical in North America for cancer control activity aimed at reducing the morbidity and mortality of cancer, the second leading cause of death in the United States (U.S.) and the leading cause... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Procedure Note, R1",CDAR2 This document describes constraint on the Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Header and Body element for Procedure Note documents. The Procedure Note or Report is created immediately following a non-operative procedure and record the i... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: Unstructured Documents, R1",CDAR2 This Implementation Guide provides consistent guidance for sending/receiving unstructured clinical document including images, scanned documents, faxed and word processor output. This Implementation Guide describes const... DSTU Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=10,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=SECURE "HL7 V3 IG: Data Segmentation for Privacy (DS4P), Release 1",DS4P The Office of the National Coordinator DS4P Implementation Guide (IG) will provide the core input into the HL7 DS4P IG project. The project scope is the publication of a U.S. realm DS4P normative specification a an exemplar for an IG that ... Normative Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=14,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=SOA "HL7 IG: Decision Support Service, Release 1",DSS IG R1 A Decision Support Service take in patient data a the input and provides back patient-specific assessment and recommendations. A Decision Support Service (DSS) facilitates the implementation of clinical decis... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 SAIF IG: Satisfying Immunization Interoperability Use Cases, R1",,XParadigm This implementation guide will explore the Service-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) methodology to show how various HL7, IHE and OMG immunization-related artifact can be deployed to sati... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG: S&I Framework Transitions of Care Companion Guide to Consolidated-CDA for MU Stage 2, R1",C-CDA Companion Guide The Companion Guide to Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) for Meaningful Use Stage 2 provides supplemental guidance to the HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Integrating Health Enterprise (IHE) Health Story Conso... Informative Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=HHSFR,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 V3 IG: Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Service-Oriented Architecture Implementation Guide, R1" This implementation guide provides a service-oriented (SOA) specification for the Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) Standard. The specification is based on the RESTful (Representational State Transfer) software archi... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2: greenCDA Modules for CCD, R1",greenCDA The Clinical Document Architecture Release 2.0 (CDA R2) address universal requirement for exchange and management of structured clinical documents. The approach described in this document, The HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA&r... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=10,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=IMAGEMGT "HL7 CDA: Imaging Integration; Basic Imaging Reports in CDA and DICOM, Release 1",DICOM,CDA,DIR This HL7 implementation guide describes how the HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Release 2 is used to record information for a Diagnostic Imaging Report. A Diagnostic Imaging Repo... Informative Section=22,Family=CDA,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE,wg=TEMPLATE,wg=TOOLING "HL7 Templates Registry Business Process Requirements Analysis, R1",Template Registry, Registry, Template Many group are creating many type of template independently and there is a need to discover what template are available, how they are represented, what their approval state is and how they can be accessed and used.The Templ... Informative Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=VOCAB,wg=ICTC "V2 Quality Criteria, R1", This publication defines clear quality criterion for HL7 Version 2 implementation guides. These criterion are applied by the implementation guide author and the appropriate HL7 committee a HL7 v2 implementation guide move through the stand... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultant and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultants, and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultants, and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLINGENOMICS "V2 IG: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Cytogenetics Model, R1","HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders and Observations; Interoperable Laboratory Result Reporting to EHR, Release 1",,OO,CG The HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; fully LOINC-Qualified Cytogenetic Model, Release 1 - US Realm detail structuring cytogenetics test result into the electronic health record utilizing HL7 version 2.5.1... Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model, Release 1","HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model, Release 2",CG This Implementation Guide detail structuring genetic test result into the electronic health record or system for translational medicine, utilizing HL7 version 2.5.1. Data structure enables clinical decision suppo... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 V2 IG: Diagnostic Audiology Reporting, R1",DAR Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) program exist world-wide to help identify infant who are deaf or hard of hearing so that critical time for language and communication development are not lost. Unidentified hearing loss ... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS eDOS,Electronic Directory of Service The Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Test Compendium Framework, Release 1 is a master file framework Implementation Guide (IG) for the electronic delivery of a laboratory Directory of Service (eDOS) to all p... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), R1","HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), Release 1",ELR, ELRR1 IG, This product page contains the Release 1 Informative Standard of HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health. If you are seeking the Release 2 Draft Standard for Trial Use o... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), Release 2","HL7 V2.5.1 IG: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), R2",ELRR2, ELR2PHR2, ELR to PH R2, ELRR2 IG, LRI-PH,ELR Note:ELR Release 2 ha been retired. This product page contains the Release 2 Draft Standard for Trial Use of HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Repor... DSTU Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=PHER "HL7 V2 IG: Body Mass Index Reporting, R1",HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Body Mass Index Reports, Release 1 - US Realm This document describes profile constraint on the HL7 V2.5.1 ORU^R01 Unsolicited Observation Message to meet the requirement of the transmission of height and weight data for calculating a patient body mass index (BMI)... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS LOI IG,Laboratory Order Interface, LOI The Laboratory Orders Interface Initiative focus on identifying the requirements, specification and standards, and on providing the implementation guidance for electronic ordering of laboratory test in the US Realm. The scope of the Labor... DSTU, STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: S&I Framework Lab Results Interface, R1 - US",S&I Framework, laboratory results, LRI,Laboratory Results Interface This guide provides guidance on how to communicate laboratory result in general from a (reference) Laboratorys LIS to a system interested in lab results, e.g., EHR, Public Health, other Laboratory. It cover general lab resul... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "V 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders & Observations; Ambulatory Care Lab Result (ELINCS), Release 1" This HL7 Version 2.5.1 Ambulatory Care Laboratory Result (ELINCS) Implementation Guide provides guidance on how to apply the HL7 Version 2.5.1 standard for the electronic reporting of laboratory test result to electronic health recor... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=HHSFR,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS OO The Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide; Orders and Observations; Interoperable Laboratory Result Reporting to EHR (US Realm), Release 1 provides guidance on how to apply the Version 2.5.1 standard to the exchange of laboratory resul... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=DSTU,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Test Compendium Framework, Release 2",eDOS IG,eDOS, AOE The content of the Laboratory Test Compendium Framework is a Laboratorys DOS. The content is owned by the sending laboratory for the purpose of being used by the compendium consumer to be able to order laboratory service and t... DSTU, STU Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,wg=PHER "HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Syndromic Surveillance, R1 - US Realm",Syndromic Surveillance Message Guide This guide provides: An HL7 implementation and content reference standard for facilitating syndromic surveillance electronic health record technology certification A... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=LABORATORY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS "V2.6 IG: Blood Bank Donation Services, R1" The HL7 Blood Bank Donation Services Implementation Guide U.S. Realm is a messaging specification intended to standardize the electronic transmission of information between system application component in a Blood Bank setti... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Devices,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.6 IG: Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) Messaging, R1",EHDI, hearing screening, newborn screening Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) program exist world-wide to help identify child with hearing loss. Because newborn hearing loss is a neuro-developmental emergency, child with hearing loss need to be identified short... DSTU, Normative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Devices,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.6 IG: Newborn Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects (CCHD), R1",CCHD, CCHD screening result Many seemingly healthy baby with Critical Congenital Heart Disease (CCHD) may suffer negative health outcome if the birth defect is not identified shortly after birth. International effort have precipitated both program and legis... Normative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PAFM,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.5.1 IG: Vital Records Birth and Fetal Death Reporting, R1", V2.6 BFDR This document provides a technical messaging specification for transmitting birth and fetal death related information using the HL7 Version 2.6 ADT Update Patient Information. The reporting requ... STU Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER "HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Vital Records Death Reporting, Release 1 - US Realm","HL7 V2.6 IG: Vital Records Death Reporting, R1 - US Realm","HL7 V2.5.1 IG: Vital Records Death Reporting (US Realm), Release 1",VRDR,V2.6 VRDR,v2.5.1 Death Reporting IG, V2.6 VRDR, Death Reporting, Vital Records De This document provides a technical messaging specification for transmitting death related information using the HL7 Version 2.6 ADT Update Patient Information. The reporting requirement are consistent with the 2003 Revision of the Unite... STU Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=13,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PHER "HL7 V2.7.1 IG: Message Transformations with OASIS Tracking of Emergency Patients (TEP), R1",TEP/ADT Transformation, ADT/TEP Transformation The scope of this project wa to write a specification that can be used to develop transforms of the OASIS Emergency Data eXchange Language (EDXL) TEP 1.1 data that properly map to the appropriate HL7 v2.7.1 message used in the healt... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=STU,Section=13,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PHER "V2.8.2 IG: Immunization Messaging, R1", This document is a US Realm implementation guide for immunization messaging. The document cover both submission of vaccination event and patient demographic a well a bi-directional query and response.This document is suitable for u... STU Section=1,Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Topic=Devices,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=V2MGMTGRP HL7 Version 2.9.1,V2.9.1 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG for CDAR2L3: Neonatal Care Report, R1",CDAR2 This implementation guide (IG) specifies a standard for electronic submission of neonatal care record (NCRs) in a Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 (R2) format. This facilitates electronic extraction of a subset of the C... DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=RCRIM "HL7 V3 IG: Regulated Studies; Annotated ECG R1, R2","HL7 aECG Implementation Guide, R1",V3,aECG,"annotated ECG Implementation Guide" This HL7 Version 3 implementation guide offer supplemental material for the January, 2004 annotated ECG (aECG), standard. This implementation guide is not complete in itself and should be used in conjunction with the HL7 aECG stand... Informative Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Decision Support,Type=STU,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=14,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=CQI V3IG: CQL-based HQMF R1,V3IG: CQL-based HQMF This Implementation Guide (IG) defines an approach to using the Clinical Quality Language (CQL) with the Quality Data Model (QDM) and Health Quality Measures Format (HQMF) to define electronic Clinical Quality Measures (eCQMs). The IG de... STU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=HHSFR,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 3","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 4","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 2","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: URL-Based Implementations of the Context-Aware Information Retrieval (Infobutton) Domain, Release 1",Infobutton IG,Infobutton The Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) specification provide a standard mechanism for clinical information system to request context-specific clinical knowledge form online resources. This ha become a widely adopted appro... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 IG: Drug Stability Reporting R2, R3",V3,DSR This implementation guide for Drug Stability Reporting (eStability) describes the basic requirement needed for using the standard, and the requirement needed for submitting information to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) agency using... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 V3 IG: Canonical Pedigree (Family History) Interoperability, R1" The HL7 Clinical Genomics Family Health History (Pedigree) Model is a data standard for capturing,within a system, and transmitting family history between systems. This includes describing a patient full pedigree (family and f... Informative Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=PHARMACY,Product_Type=SFM,Type=DSTU,Section=14,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,wg=MEDREC "HL7 V3 IG: Medication Statement Service Profile Using hData, R1",hData The Medication Statement Service is a Resource Location and Updating Service (RLUS) functional and semantic profile to provide a list of medication for a given patient. DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM V3 IG: SPL R3: FDA Content of Labeling,SPL,V3 IG This document provides technical conformance criterion for Structured Product Labeling (SPL) file based on the drug establishment registration and drug listing process at the United States Food and ... Informative Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 IG: SPL, R4",SPL,V3 This document provides technical conformance criterion for Structured Product Labeling (SPL) file based on the drug establishment registration and drug listing process at the United States Food and ... Informative Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=SPL,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM SPL,V3 IG This document provides technical conformance criterion for Structured Product Labeling (SPL) file based on the drug establishment registration and drug listing process at the United States Food and ... Informative Section=22,Type=DSTU,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Using SNOMED CT, Release 1",Terminfo,SNOMED The purpose of this guide is to ensure that HL7 Version 3 standards, particularly CDA R2, achieve their stated goal of semantic interoperability when used to communicate clinical information that is represented using concept from ... DSTU, Informative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=ANSI-registered,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=US,wg=EMERGENCYCARE "HL7 V3 Specification: Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems (DEEDS), R1",DEEDS, Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems This document expands the scope and update the original Center for Disease Control Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems. This comprehensive set of data element will serve a the content for the interchange format described above... Informative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "V3 Common Terminology Services, Release 1","V3 Common Terminology Services, R1",CTS PIM,CTS The HL7 International Common Terminology Services (HL7 CTS) defines an Application Programming Interface (API) that can be used by HL7 Version 3 software when accessing terminological content. It is intended to specify only ... Normative Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=CQI "V3: Representation of the Health Quality Measure Format, R1",V3,HQMF,eMeasures The Health Quality Measures Format (HQMF) is a standard for representing a health quality measure a an electronic document. A quality measure is a quantitative tool that provides an indication of an individual or organ... Normative Section=22,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification for RIM Serializations, Release 1" ITS R2 us the ISO datatypes, which were designed in tandem with ITS R2. ITS R2 is required to fully utilize the ISO datatypes. This guide is broken into two parts, the ISO datatypes guide, whic... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "V3 GELLO IG: CDS Model Definition Language for GELLO, R1","HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide: Virtual Medical Record for Clincial Decision Support (vMR-CDS) for GELLO, Release 1",vMR-CDS for GELLO,VMR_GELLO A Model Definition Language for Clinical Decision Support (CDS) is a grammar for representing clinical information input and output that can be used by CDS engine and local clinical information systems. This model defin... Normative Section=20,Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC ePrescribing,NCPDP The Version 2 NCPDP Electronic Prescribing Coordination Mapping Implementation Guide provides mapping requirement for electronic prescribing system using HL7 Versions 2.4 and later. It specifies functional electronic prescribing commu... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Family=CDA,Topic=HHSFR,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Patient Referral,Section=10,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV Implementation Guide for CDA R2 CCD The Continuity of Care Document (CCD) is a joint effort of HL7 International and ASTM. CCD foster interoperability of clinical data by allowing physician to send electronic medical information to other provider without loss of meani... Informative Section=22,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Family=FHIR,Type=STU,Section=12,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7 FHIR IG: Specialty Medication Enrollment, R1 - US Realm",Specialty Medication Enrollment This FHIR implementation Guide describes the exchange of patient demographic, clinical and coverage data to support fulfillment of specialty medication prescription by pharmacies, and enrollment of patient into related support progr... STU Section=20,Section=22,Topic=PHARMACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=MEDREC "HL7/NCPDP Guidance: Consultant Pharmacist Consult Note Update, R1 - US Realm", The HL7/NCPDP Pharmacist Consultation Note guidance document address the unique pharmacy requirement when creating either C-CDA Consult Notes or C-CDA on FHIR Consultation Notes. Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Emergency Management,Section=13,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PAFM HL7/OASIS Xparadigm IG: EDXL HAVE,HAVE, EDXL-HAVE-v2.0 EDXL-HAVE (HAVE) is an XML messaging standard primarily for exchange of information related to health facility in the context of emergency management. HAVE support sharing information about facility services, bed counts, opera... Informative Section=22,Family=V2,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultant and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Section=22,Family=V2,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV This document provides assistance to healthcare institutions, hospital information system vendors, consultants, and other support group that are considering system development and implementation activity in a multi-system envir... Section=22,Family=V2,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=DSS vMR for CDS,vMR-CDS This standard specifies method of encoding rich data in HL7 V2 messages, to enable a virtual medical record for clinical decision support (vMR-CDS) to be built out of HL7 V2 data. DSTU Section=20,Section=22,Family=V3,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=RCRIM "V3 IG: Regulated Product Submission R2, Release 1",RPS,V3,IG The Version 3 Regulated Product Submission (RPS) Implementation Guide provides technical detail (conformance criteria) on using the Regulated Product Submission (RPS) standard. The RPS standard provides a common mean of exchange of do... Informative Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Education & Awareness HL7 Standards - Section 4: Rules and References Technical specifications, programming structure and guideline for software and standard development. Click a Standard to link to more detail. Filters Filter options: Ballot Type DSTU Informative Normative Normative (R1) STU Current State Active Retired Stable Family Arden CCOW CDA Cross-paradigm V2 V3 Product Type ANSI-approved Data Types Document Domain Analysis Model Domain Content Model Encoding Syntax Functional Model Functional Profile Implementation Guide Methodology Specifications Services Standard Reference Materials Structures Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) XML Schemas Realm Universal US Realm Stakeholder Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Emergency Services Providers Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions HIS Vendors Immunization Registries Lab Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors Quality Reporting Agencies Regulatory Agency Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Topic Attachments Cardiology Care Provision CCOW Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Clinical Statement Community-Based Health Decision Support Financial Management Healthcare Devices Laboratory Materials Management Medical Records Nutrition Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Referral Personnel Management Pharmacy Public Health Regulated Products Regulated Studies Scheduling Security and Privacy SPL Terminology Work Group Architectural Review Arden Syntax Clinical Context Object Workgroup Clinical Decision Support Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Information Clinical Statement Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) Conformance Implementable Technology Specifications Infrastructure and Messaging Mobile Health Modeling and Methodology Orders and Observations Patient Care Pharmacy Project Services Public Health Publishing Security Services Oriented Architecture Structured Documents Terminology Infrastructure Work Group V2 Management Group Filter Name Description Type Section=24,Family=ARDEN,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=15,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN ARDEN The HL7 International Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Modules (MLMs) is an ANSI-approved American National Standard language for encoding medical knowledge and representing and sharing that knowledge among personnel, information syste... Normative Section=24,Family=ARDEN,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=15,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN Arden Syntax V2.8,ARDEN The HL7 International Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems is an ANSI-approved American National Standard language for encoding procedural medical knowledge and representing and sharing that knowledge among personnel, information syste... Normative Section=24,Family=ARDEN,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=15,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ARDEN Arden Syntax V2.9,ARDEN The Arden Syntax is a formalism for representing procedural clinical knowledge in order to facilitate the sharing of computerized health knowledge base among personnel, information system and institutions. Knowledge bases... Normative Section=24,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ARB HL7 Business Architecture Model (BAM) Phase 1: Product Planning,BAM,Business Architecture Model, The purpose of the HL7 Business Architecture Model document (BAM) and associated diagram is to collectively describe a 'goal state' business architecture model (BAM) for HL7 with an init... Informative Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH "HL7 CDA R2 IG: Patient-Friendly Consent Directives, Release 1",Patient Friendly Language for Security and Privacy, PFL, The Patient Friendly Language for Consumer User Interfaces IG is sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and is a result of a focused effort to provide a plain language healthcare vocabulary for patient comprehension. This ... Informative Section=20,Section=24,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=FunctionalProfile,Type=STU,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MOBILE "HL7 MHaFF: Consumer Mobile Health App Functional Framework, R1",cMHAFF The Consumer Mobile Health Application Functional Framework is an HL7 Standard for Trial Use (STU). The primary goal of the Consumer Mobile Health Functional Framework ( cMHAFF ) are to provide a standard against which a mobile app&r... STU Section=1,Section=24,Family=CCOW,Topic=CCOW,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=16,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=VISUAL,wg=INM Reaffirmation of CCOW 1.6,Clinical Context Management Specification (CCOW) Version 1.6,CCOW This specification ha been retired, and is being replaced by HL7 FHIRCast Aimed at facilitating the integration of application at the point of use, CCOW Context Management Specification is a sta... Normative Section=24,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Type=INFORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 Allergy and Intolerance Substance Value Set(s) Definition, Release 1",Common Allergy & Intolerance Substance Value Set This document describes a value set for use in identifying substance of concern for patient with allergy and intolerances. The list wa generated by surveying existing record from large syst... Informative Section=24,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Product_Type=SFM,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Community-Based Health,Topic=Decision Support,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Type=STU,Product_Type=Structures,Section=17,Product_Type=FM,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "HL7 Specification: Health Service Reference Architecture (HL7-HSRA), R1",,HL7-HIRA The Health Services Reference Architecture (HSRA) aim to support the design of medium/large scale eHealth architecture based on HL7 service and standards. The HSRA support the architectural desi... STU Section=20,Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Family=Cross-paradigm,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=ITS "HL7 V3 Standard: Clinical Quality Expression Lanaguage, R1","Clinical Quality Language",CQL Clinical Quality Language (CQL) is a high-level, domain-specific language focused on clinical quality improvement and targeted at measure and decision support artifact author and implementers. ... Normative Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Topic=Decision Support,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "HL7 Neutral Mapping Notation, Release 1",FHIRPath, FluentPath,FluentPath/CQL FHIRPath is a path based navigation and extraction language, somewhat like XPath. Operations are expressed in term of the logical content of hierarchical data models, and support traversal, selection and filtering of data. Its desig... Normative Section=24,Type=INFORMATIVE,Family=Cross-paradigm,Product_Type=DCM,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PATIENTCARE "HL7 Cross-Paradigm Specification: Clinical Negation Requirements, Release 1",Negation This document survey requirement and extant pattern for representing pertinent negative and other negative semantics, and it analyzes the relative strength and challenge for these pattern in different use cases. This analy... Informative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=DAM,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CLINGENOMICS "HL7 Domain Information Model: Clinical Genomics, Release 1",CG DAM,CG DIM This document develops a domain analysis model for various use case in clinical genomics with an emphasis on clinical sequencing. The model describes and outline a multitude of use case and scenario in which clinical sequencing testing is cu... Informative Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 Healthcare Privacy and Security Classification System, R1", HCS International standard document describing the use of a Healthcare Privacy and Security Classification System (HCS) suitable for automated labeling and segmentation of protected health care info... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=MEDREC,Type=DSTU,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 IG: LOINC Clinical Document Ontology, R1",LOINC Doc Ontology, LOINC Document Ontology, LOINC Clinical Document Ontology The purpose for this implementation guide is to define how the LOINC Document Ontology can be implemented within system a a foundation for powerful archiving, data mining, and information exch... DSTU Section=24,Family=CDA,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=SFM,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=Structures,Section=10,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=PATIENTCARE,wg=STRUCTURE "HL7 Informative Document: C-CDA Scorecard Rubric, Release 1",C-CDA Scoring Rubric,C-CDA Rubric This informative implementation guide contains rubric criterion created through an ongoing project in the HL7 Structured Documents Work Group (SDWG), originating in 2016. Throughout 2018 a group of HL7 member created a new set of rubri... Informative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=PUBLISHING V2 V2.9 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=24,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=PSC "Introducing New Processes to HL7, R1", This document defines the approval and adoption methodology for non-standards process artifacts; it wa developed by Project Services but commissioned by the Technical Steering Committee (TSC). HL7 ha a well-defined metho... Informative Section=24,Product_Type=SFM,Type=INFORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ARB "HL7 Service-Aware Interoperability Framework: Canonical Definition, Release 1","HL7 Service-Aware Interoperability Framework: Canonical Definition Specification, R2",SAIF, SAEAF, SAIF-CD The Service-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) provides consistency between all artifacts, enables a standardized approach to Enterprise Architecture development and implementation, and a way ... Informative, Normative Section=24,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Family=Cross-paradigm,Section=17,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=MNM,wg=VOCAB "HL7 Specification: Characteristics of a Value Set Definition, Release 1",VSD,Value Set Definition This document describes the data element that formally define and characterize (describe) how to create an HL7 conformant value set. These include: the metadata used to identify and define a va... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=CQI "HL7 Specification: Clinical Quality Common Metadata, Release 1",Clinical Quality Common Metadata Conceptual Model The purpose of this specification is to identify a common model that shall be used to derive and implement metadata information in D-MIMs and Logical Models in a consistent manner for any HL7 specification impacting initi... Informative Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Type=INFORMATIVE,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=VOCAB,wg=ICTC "V2 Quality Criteria, R1", This publication defines clear quality criterion for HL7 Version 2 implementation guides. These criterion are applied by the implementation guide author and the appropriate HL7 committee a HL7 v2 implementation guide move through the stand... Informative Section=24,Family=V2,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=13,Product_Type=DOC,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ICTC "V2: Conformance, R1",v2 conformance, message profile HL7 Version 2 Conformance Methodology explains the procedure and process for constraining HL7 v2 message specifications, encompassing both message profile and implementation guide that contain message profi... Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Type=DSTU,Topic=Terminology,Type=STU,Section=13,Product_Type=IG,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=US,wg=ORDERS,wg=PHER LOI, LRI HL7 ha developed multiple Implementation Guides (IGs) for the laboratory domain, supporting US Realm requirements. These IGs cover a broad spectrum of interoperability; in order to harmonize vocabulary requirement across the IGs, HL7 O... DSTU, STU Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.7.1 XML Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.8 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.8.1 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Section=13,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV The HL7 Version 2.8.2 v2.xml Message Definition schema representation are provided for convenience, a the XML schema is a compact and specific way to describe the XML representation. However the schema is not in itself a normative part ... Section=1,Section=20,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V2,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=CLINICALGENOMICS,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=MEDREC,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=SCHEDULING,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Topic=Cardiology,Topic=Materials Management,Topic=Patient Referral,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Topic=Attachments,Topic=Nutrition Orders,Topic=Devices,Topic=Clinical Quality,Section=13,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=V2MGMTGRP HL7 Version 2.9.1,V2.9.1 HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the excha... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA This document describes a methodology for defining service within the healthcare domain, in particular, for area covered by Health Level Seven (HL7) domain content; an effort known a Service Oriented Architecture for Health Level Seven... Informative Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 V3 Security and Privacy Ontology, R1",Security and Privacy Ontology, SPO,V3 The HL7 Security and Privacy Ontology serf to name, define, formally describe, and interrelate key security and privacy concept within the scope of Healthcare Information Technology, including security policies, privacy polic... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM Reaffirmation of V3 Abstract Transport R1,"V3: Abstract Transport Specification, R1",Abstract Transport,ATS The Abstract Transport Specification provides model and mechanism for plug and play interoperability. Within that goal, the HL7 standard defines static and dynamic model for the information exchange that refer to the application layer... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=FINANCIALMGMT,Topic=LABORATORY,Topic=PATIENTADMIN,Topic=PERSONALMGMT,Topic=PHARMACY,Topic=PUBLICHEALTH,Topic=REGULATEDSTUDIES,Topic=SCHEDULING,Topic=SPL,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Clinical Statement,Topic=Regulated Products,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MEDREC,wg=MNM,wg=ORDERS,wg=CLINICALSTATEMENTS "V3: Clinical Statement Pattern CMETs, R1","V3: Pharmacy: Medication CMETs, R1","V3: Pharmacy CMETs, R1","V3: Common Product Model, R1","V3: Pharmacy: Medication CMETs, R9","V3: Pharmacy CMETs, R8","V3: Common Message Element Types, R2","V3: Common Message Element Types, R3",CMET,CMETS,RX, Medication CMETs, CPM,CP, Clinical Statement CMETs (Common Model Element Types) are a work product produced by a particular work group for expressing a common, useful and reusable concept. They are generally "consumed", or used by both the producing and other work group... Normative Section=20,Section=11,Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "V3 Common Terminology Services, Release 1","V3 Common Terminology Services, R1",CTS PIM,CTS The HL7 International Common Terminology Services (HL7 CTS) defines an Application Programming Interface (API) that can be used by HL7 Version 3 software when accessing terminological content. It is intended to specify only ... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=Standard Reference Materials,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MNM "HL7 V3 Standard: Core Principles and Properties of V3 Models, R2",CPP,Core Principles R2 As The HL7 Version 3 Methodology matured, the responsible work group realized that there wa a "missing" specification. The "missing" specification should specify what are the essential feature of the model on which... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=MNM "V3 Data Types - Abstract Specification, Release 2",DTR2,Data Types This document provides the semantic definition for the data type used in the creation of HL7 V3 specifications. These "abstract" semantic definition are also able to be used a constraint in the creation of imple... Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "GELLO, R2",GELLO GELLO, part of the HL7 Version 3 Normative Edition, is a standard query and expression language that provides a suitable framework for manipulation of clinical data for decision support in healthcare. The GELLO language can be used to build... Normative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE V3 HACC R3,"HL7 Version 3 Standard: Role-based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 2","Role-Based Access Control Healthcare Permission Catalog, Release 1",V3,RBAC,Healthcare Access Control Catalog,HACC,Permission Catalog,, ABAC, ACHPCAT The Healthcare (Security and Privacy) Access Control Catalog is a new standard extending the current normative HL7 Role-based Access Control (RBAC) Permission Catalog standard. The upda... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "Entity Identification Service, R1",EIS,IS,IXS The Identification Service (IS) also known a the Identification and Cross-Reference Service (IXS) Service Functional Model define the functional requirement which provides a set of capability to manage and retrieve identifying infor... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Type=NORMATIVE,Type=NORMATIVE_R1,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "V3: ISO-Harmonized Data Types, Release 1",DTR2,ISO Data type This product provides a set of global representation for data used in the presentation and communication of healthcare information. This standardized set ha been approved by the International Standards Organizations (ISO) Medic... Normative, Normative (R1) Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM "V3 Message Control Act, Query, and Transmission Infrastructure, R1","V3 Message Control Act Infrastructure, R2","V3 Message Control Query Infrastructure, R2","V3 Transmission Infrastructure, R2",Reaffirmation of Master File - Registry Infrastructure R1,MCQI,MCAI,MFRI The Infrastructure Management section of the HL7 Version 3 Normative Edition focus on the development and management of specification that support the routing of message to their specified dest... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=ITS "HL7 V3 Standard: Infrastructure Management; Control Act, Query and Transmission, R1.1" HL7 V3 Messaging is predicated on a common set of "wrappers" that provide for transmission control, query control and control act specifications. These were originally approved by HL7 and ANSI in October 2004. Following is the origi... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Type=INFORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=MNM "V3 Specification: Model Interchange Format (MIF), R1",MIF The HL7 Version 3 Specification: Model Interchange Format (MIF), Release 1 defines the content of the artifact used by HL7, HL7 affiliate and implementers in the creation and implementation of HL7 v3 specifications, including messa... Informative Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=CAREPROVISION,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=DSTU,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS "V3 Order Set Publication, R1",Order Sets Order set can organize and structure complex health care plan into useful unit of work for clinicians. An order within an order set can request any clinical activity including referral (requests for encounters), acts, suppl... DSTU Section=20,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=HOMEHEALTH,wg=SECURE,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS); Access Control, R1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) - Access Control, Release 1","HL7 Version 3 Standard: Privacy, Access and Security Services (PASS) - Access Control, PIM Level, Release 1",PASS,PASS ACS, PASS Access Control The purpose of this document is to describe the conceptual-level viewpoint associated with the business requirement that relate to the content, structure, and functional behavior of information important to the Access Control area of th... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=SECURITYPRIVACY,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Terminology,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SECURE "HL7 Version 3 Standard: Security Labeling Service, Release 1",SLS Specify interoperable Security Labeling functional capability that are exposed through well-defined, technology agnostic service interfaces. Functional capability will likely include the following component service and infra... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ICTC "Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 Standard: Refinement, Constraint and Localization to V3 Messages, R2","V3 Refinement, Constraint and Localization, Release 2",RCL This HL7 Version 3 (V3) standard describes the process whereby HL7 V3 artifact specification may be refined, constrained and extended to support implementation designs, conformance profiles, and realm-specific stand... Normative Section=22,Section=24,Family=V3,Topic=PATIENTCARE,Type=NORMATIVE,Topic=Decision Support,Section=14,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=DSS,wg=CQI "V3: Representation of the Health Quality Measure Format, R1",V3,HQMF,eMeasures The Health Quality Measures Format (HQMF) is a standard for representing a health quality measure a an electronic document. A quality measure is a quantitative tool that provides an indication of an individual or organ... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=SFM,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=SOA "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 3 Standard: Retrieve, Locate, and Update Service (RLUS), Release 1","HL7 V3 Standard: Retrieve, Locate and Update Service (RLUS), Release 1",RLUS The Retrieve, Locate, and Update Service (RLUS) Service Functional Model specify the appropriate capability that must be realized by a service interface to locate, retrieve, and update resource (e.g. documents, messages) among and w... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=CDSVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM "V3 Transmission Infrastructure, R2",Transmission Infrastructure, Wrappers, "Control Act, Query and Transmission, R1.1" The Health Level Seven (HL7) Standard applies to the electronic exchange of data in all healthcare environments. Within the context of healthcare messaging, the HL7 standard is primarily concerned with the data content of excha... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "V3: Transport Specification - ebXML Using ebMS 2.0, R1",ebXML for ebMS The purpose of the ebXML message wrapper is to provide a secure, flexible transport for exchanging HL7 message and other content, and potentially other message formats, between message handling interface or ebXML Message Service Handl... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=INM,wg=ITS "V3 Minimal Lower Layer Protocol (MLLP), Release 2","Reaffirmation of the HL7 Version 3 Standard: Transport Specification - MLLP, Release 2",Transport Spec MLLP,MLLP The purpose of the MLLP Protocol (Minimum Lower Layer Protocol) is to provide both a minimalistic Open Systems Interconnection (OSI)-session layer framing protocol a well a a minimalistic reliable transport protocol. If secur... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=XML Schemas,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "V3 XML Implementable Technology Specification for V3 Structures, R1","V3 XML Implementable Technology Specification for V3 Structures 1.1, R1",DTR1.1,V3 XML ITS Structures The objective of this document is to present an Implementable Technology Specification (ITS) for the encoding rule for HL7 Version 3 message based on XML (Extensible Markup Language). Several XML ... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "Reaffirm V3: XML ITS - V3 Structures for Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types, Release 1","V3 XML ITS V3 Structures for Wire Frame Compatible R1 Data Types, R1",r2b,XML ITS The ITS Structures for Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types specification, referred to a R2b, intends to be mostly wire-backwards-compatible to existing ITS Structures R1.1 but conformant (directly or indir... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS Reaffirmation of HL7 V3 XML ITS Structures R2,"HL7 Version 3 Standard: XML Implementation Technology Specification, Release 2",XML ITS The objective of this document is to present an Implementable Technology Specification (ITS) for the encoding rule for HL7 Version 3 message based on the Extensible Markup Language XML. ... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Product_Type=DATATYPES,Product_Type=TRANS,Type=NORMATIVE,Section=14,Stakeholder=HITVend,Current_State=Active,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "Reaffirmation of V3: XML ITS - Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types, R1","V3 XML ITS Wire Frame Compatible R1 Data Types, R1",Data Types R2B,XML ITS,R2B changed to retired for 10 year inactivity by KVH and LL 9/21/2022 This is the Wire Format Compatible Release 1 Data Types (XML ITS R2B) for datatypes. It implement a subset of the Abstract Data Types R2 with a wire format that is mostly backwards compatible with ITS R1. Note, however, that while the w... Normative Section=24,Family=V3,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=Methodology Specifications,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=14,Stakeholder=ClinLabs,Stakeholder=ImmReg,Stakeholder=QRReg,Stakeholder=SDOs,Stakeholder=RegAgcy,Stakeholder=Payors,Stakeholder=EmergProv,Stakeholder=DOH,Stakeholder=ImgVend,Stakeholder=Hosp,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=MNM "V3 Reference Information Model, R1","V3 Reference Information Model, R2","V3 Reference Information Model, R4","V3 Reference Information Model, R6","V3 Reference Information Model, R5","V3 Reference Information Model, R3",RIM The HL7 Reference Information Model (RIM) is a critical component of the HL7 V3 family of standards. It is the root of all information model and structure developed a part of the V3 development process. ... Normative Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Stakeholder=RxVend,Stakeholder=EHRVend,Stakeholder=EquipVend,Stakeholder=HITVend,Stakeholder=LISVend,Stakeholder=HISVend,Current_State=Stable,Realm=UV,wg=ITS "Reaffirmation of HL7 Version 2: XML Encoding Syntax, R2","XML Encoding Rules for Version 2 Messages, Release 2",version 2 xml encoding, xml its,"version 2" xml The objective of this document is to present alternate encoding rule for HL7 Version 2.3.1 to 2.7 message (and a mechanism for determining alternate encoding rule for subsequent HL7 2.x versions) based on the Extensible Markup Language XML t... Normative Section=24,Family=V2,Product_Type=ENCODINGSYNTAX,Type=NORMATIVE,Product_Type=ANSI-approved,Section=13,Current_State=Retired,Realm=UV,wg=ITS XML Encoding Rules for HL7 V2 Messages This document describes how to use XML for Version 2.x (V2) messages. Even with the release of HL7 Version 3 (V3), HL7 V2.xml is needed to support the large base of existing system that employ V2. This document doe not repla... Normative Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International My HL7 Dashboard Welcome! Please to access the My HL7 Dashboard area. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International You must be a a member of HL7.org to access this resource. Click to send an email to the Webmaster > > Balloting Balloting Schedule Please see the for the current balloting schedule Balloting Voting on candidate standard and document is available to both and . The Ballot Desktop for voting on candidate standard and document can be found at the link below: Please note that to actively vote you must be logged in with a valid voting member id and password. In addition, one or more overview of all of the ballot in any ballot cycle are contained in the Announcement Documents found above the listing of Ballot Document pools. Voters are referred to these announcement for detailed information about the various pool including the Unique Ballot ID used to identify each pool. The Ballot Desktop will default to the most current Ballot Cycle. Those interested in voting must join the Ballot Consensus Groups (Ballot Pools) they are interested in using the Join a Consensus Group link. The Signup Close Date for each pool is listed along with the individual Ballot Open and Ballot Close dates. Please note that the Ballot Document link will either provide you with a download of the ballot material(s) or link you to a Ballot Site. Starting in January 2022, all ballot voting except Reaffirmation and Withdrawal Ballots will be done using Jira Balloting. For more information please refer to the Confluence page on NOTE: Ballot Comment Spreadsheets are provided for each ballot. They are located in the zip file found in the far right "Cmnt" column. This zip file will contain a complete set of ballot comment spreadsheets, so you only need to download it once. Please do not use any old ballot spreadsheet from previous cycle a we continue to make improvement each ballot cycle. Membership is reminded that ANSI rule dictate that all voting individual in an initial Normative ballot pool MUST be included in any subsequent Normative ballots. Thus, if a document is going out for a 2nd Normative ballot, all individual who actively voted in the first ballot are automatically subscribed a member of the pool for the 2nd Normative ballot. If you do not wish to continue to participate, please use the Ballot Desktop to remove yourself from the pool. Member Balloting Instructions Members, please before accessing the balloting site. Non-Member Participation Non-Member participation in HL7 ballot is available to any interested parties, although there is an administrative fee for most of the candidate standard and documents. Any fee for a ballot are detailed on a selection page during the sign-up process. Fees typically run about $400 per pool, with a maximum not to exceed the fee for an individual membership. Non-members who have not yet signed-up may use the link below and then begin the sign-up process by clicking the Non-Member Participation in this Cycle link in the menu bar at the top of the page, beside the "Ballot Desktop" link. Non-Members who have already signed up for participation may log in from the page Please refer to the for more detailed help. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Certification Directory Certification Directory A comprehensive list of certified member with the type of certification, location, country, and date. Search Certification Directory Certified User: Search Tips Try searching for just the last name, or any part of the name of the person you wish to find. The Certification Location input will also search on partial strings. Learn more about becoming an. Country of Origin: * All Countries-------------AfghanistanAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntigua & BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBosnia & HerzegovinaBotswanaBrazilBritish Virgin IslesBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurma (Myanmar)BurundiCambodiaCanadaCape VerdeCayman IslandsCentral African RepChadChileChinaColombiaComorosCongo-BrazzavilleCook IslandsCosta RicaCroatiaCubaCyprusCzech RepublicDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDjiboutiDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFijiFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuatemalaGuineaGuyanaHaitiHondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsraelItalyIvory CoastJamaicaJapanJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiKuwaitKyrgyzstanLaos PDRLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNauruNepalNetherlandsNetherlands AntillesNew CaledoniaNew ZealandNicaraguaNigeriaNiueNorth KoreaNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalauPalestine TerritoryPanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPeruPhilippinesPitcairn IslandsPolandPortugalPUERTO RICOQatarRepublic of GeorgiaRepublic of YemenReunionRomaniaRussiaRwandaSan MarinoSao Tome & PrincipeSaudi ArabiaSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSlovak RepublicSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth KoreaSpainSri LankaSt .Vincent & GrenadinesSt HelenaSt Kitts & NevisSt LuciaSt Pierre & MiquelonSudanSurinameSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwanTajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoTokelauTongaTrinidad & TobagoTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited StatesUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaVietnamWallis & FutunaWestern SamoaZambiaZimbabwe Certification Type: All Certifications------------------Certified HL7 CDA SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.3 Chapter 2 Control/Query SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.4 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.5 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.6/2.5 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.7 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control SpecialistsCertified HL7 V3 RIM SpecialistsHL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency ExamHL7 FHIR STU3 Proficiency Exam Certification Location: Certified Between: (MM/DD/YY) and (MM/DD/YY) 20 Most Recently Certified Members 1-20 of 6134Page: 1 Erin Kough United States Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 24, 2024 Michael Albrecht United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Johnson County Community College Apr 24, 2024 Max Walter Wellauer Switzerland HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Digicomp Academy AG_Zurich Apr 24, 2024 Alexandru Vidrean Romania HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 23, 2024 Jeffrey Lee United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam ASM Educational Center Apr 22, 2024 Zvonimir Planinc Croatia HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Algebra LTD Zagreb Apr 22, 2024 Loc Bettini Spain Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 22, 2024 Jason Osborne United States Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 22, 2024 Shawn Turk United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Georgia Gwinnett College Testing Services Apr 17, 2024 Shruti Thokal India Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists VoiceTech Networks Pvt Ltd_BTM Layout Apr 15, 2024 Brian Fung United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 15, 2024 Tony Donohoe Ireland Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Online Apr 10, 2024 Charles Sarrazin Canada HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 10, 2024 Adrien Gobeil Canada HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 10, 2024 Thomas Debertshuser Germany HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 5, 2024 Thomas Debertshuser Germany HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Online Apr 5, 2024 Rajat Sharma India Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists Meritorious Academy PVT LTD Mar 30, 2024 Nandan Savalia United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam AVTI_South Plainfield Mar 28, 2024 Kavya M India Certified HL7 V2.8 Chapter 2 Control Specialists BMM IT Solutions Mar 27, 2024 Hemanth Ande United States HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Tacoma Community College Mar 25, 2024 1-20 of 6134Page: 1 * Address information is only available for user certified after 2009 and where an address wa supplied. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > HL7 Store HL7 Store Merchandise & Swag Merchandise sold through a partnership with Spreadshirt. Shipping available from UK and USA. But wait, there's more! We only have so much space on this page to highlight the endless option that are available. For a complete list of available products, visit where you can choose your merch or customize your own design! Books & Study Guides HL7 FHIR Study Guide The HL7 FHIR Study Guide will benefit those who want to learn about the HL7 FHIR standard. It will also be useful in preparing for the HL7 FHIR certification examination conducted by HL7 International. The guide cover all HL7 FHIR technical interfacing skill that are highly desired for professional to perform their job in a proficient manner. Though this guide is intended to be version agnostic, i.e. independent from the current version, some question may relate to FHIR STU3. Readers are encouraged to use the most recent FHIR version (available online) a a resource. A study guide is only one tool towards understanding the standard and becoming certified. Studying the material from the study guide is not sufficient to pas the exam. In addition, one should participate in face-to-face (virtual or in-person) and/or online training to complement their study. When preparing, test taker should acquaint themselves with HL7 FHIR R4 Specification which is freely available at . Members: $100 Non-Members: $150 Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Jobs Board HL7 Job Postings Active Job Postings There are no active job posting right now, please check back later! Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Conference Call Center Options My Work Groups You are not following any Work Groups YOUR UPCOMING CALLS Please to see the upcoming conference call associated with your account. January February March April May June July August September October November December Overview of all conference call Arden Syntax Argonaut Project Biomedical Research and Regulation BioPharma Board of Directors CARIN CDA Management Group Clinical Decision Support Clinical Genomics Clinical Information Modeling Initiative Clinical Interoperability Council Clinical Quality Information CodeX Community-Based Care and Privacy (CBCP) Conformance Contract Work Cross-Group Projects Da Vinci Project Devices Education Electronic Health Records Emergency Care FAST FHIR Community Process Coordination Committee FHIR Infrastructure FHIR Management Group FHIR-OMOP Financial Management Governance and Structure Task Force Gravity Health Level Seven Health Professionals Helios HIMSS HL7 Europe HL7 Nursing Group Human and Social Services Imaging Integration Implementable Technology Specifications Infrastructure and Messaging International Council Internationalization Committee Involvement Task Force Leadership Development and Nomination Committee Learning Health Systems Marketing and Communications Task Force Mobile Health Orders and Observations Partners In Interoperability Value-Based Care Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Empowerment Payer/Provider Information Exchange Work Group Pharmacy Policy Advisory Committee Products and Services Task Force Public Health Publishing - Electronic Services and Tooling Revenue Task Force Security Services Oriented Architecture Structured Documents Technical Steering Committee Terminology Authority Terminology Infrastructure Work Group Terminology Services Management Group (TSMG) Transition Oversight Team US Realm Steering Committee V2 Management Group Vulcan Women of HL7 Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat CALENDAR SUBSCRIPTION Subscribe to your conference call in your favorite calendar program, and you'll automatically receive update when new call are scheduled or existing call are changed. To use this feature, you must be subscribed to at least one listserv belonging to each work group that you wish to see on your calendar. To subscribe or unsubscribe from a workgroup's listservs, visit the page. Calendar subcriptions work with Microsoft Outlook, Google Calendar, Apple iCal, and other program that support the webcal/ical formats. In most cases, subscribing to your calendar update is a easy a clicking the Add to Calendar link. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International Comprehensive V2 to FHIR Mapping Course 2024 Course Dates May 2 June 6, 2024 (Registration closed) September 5 October 10, 2024 Objective The objective of the course is to provide knowledge on HL7 V2 () to HL7 FHIR () mapping. Use cases, scenario analysis and hands-on exercise are used extensively in this course. Who should attend: Engineers, business analyst and system designer Clinical SMEs and HL7 integration team member dealing with HL7 V2 message in their project work Anyone who ha V2 and FHIR knowledge and want to learn mapping V2 to FHIR At the end of the course, participant will: Have a good understanding of V2 messaging concept Obtain a good knowledge of FHIR resource concept including a high-level understanding of Rest API, Bundle and Profiles Learn the approach of mapping V2 message to FHIR resource in depth through practical exercise What to Expect This is an asynchronous, instructor-led online course that allows you to work at your own pace. You can expect: Instructors who are HL7 FHIR expert and working professional Various learning modulesconsisting of recorded lectures, reading material and practice exercise Live & interactive Q&A session each week Assignments to practice understanding of V2 messages, understanding/writing FHIR resource (focus on JSON) and mapping V2 data to FHIR (such a mapping message, segment, data type, terminologies, etc.) Prerequisites Should have good knowledge of V2 standard. Course will include a high-level refresher of V2 concept but doe not teach V2 standard in depth. Should have good knowledge of FHIR standard. Course will include a high-level refresher of FHIR concept but doe not teach FHIR standard in depth. Disclaimers Course doe not cover HL7 V2 and FHIR in detail but cover only core concepts. Course doe not cover any of the FHIR Proficiency Certification Exam concepts. Course doe not cover conversion of V2 message to FHIR resource programmatically. Therefore, course doe not require coding/programming knowledge. How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: Click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price Pricing is in US Dollars. $450 HL7 Members $675 Non-Members $350 Middle Income Economies* $275 Low Income Economies* $350 Students** *Low and Middle Income Economies a . **Students are required to submit proof of enrollment in an accredited university or college (in English). Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college a of the date of registration for the certification exam. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the date of registration for the certification exam. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register Now! Additional Course Information Upcoming Training Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Become a Member Become a Member Why Join HL7 International? HL7 membership offer valuable resource and service for healthcare providers, government stakeholders, payers, pharmaceutical companies, vendors/suppliers and consulting firms. HL7 membership benefit include: Influence the technical and policy environment of the future by voting on standard Show the industry that you are a leader who is helping to make interoperability a reality Manage your implementation cost and speed time to market Access industry information to help make more informed business decision Learn best practice from industry leader Opportunities to promote implementation case study Ability to run for leadership position Discounts on meeting and educational opportunity Free and discounted job posting on HL7 Job Board Need more info? (pdf) (vimeo) (pdf) Talk to someone about membership option and choose the best option for your organization! To get started, please fill out the form on the right side of this page and a representative will contact you. Please note: all HL7 membership are non-refundable. Members may not use, copy, or distribute HL7 standard for any purpose other than personal participation in the maintenance and development of HL7 standards. For more details, please refer to the. Choose Your Membership Level Benefactor Membership For organization that want the highest level of membership, including the maximum number of voting members, greatest training discounts, and enhanced recognition for your organization. Gold Membership For organization that want additional benefit such a discounted training and increased access to HL7 experts. Organizational Membership For organization that want the standard benefit of HL7 membership. Individual Membership For individual who want to be involved with HL7 but whose organization do not have a membership. A is available for those who qualify. Those interested in a retiree membership (must meet the following qualifications: retired, 65+ year of age, and a member of HL7 for 10+ years) can contact . Request More Information Membership Benefits At a Glance Select Member Benefits Individual* Organizational Gold Benefactor Maximum number of voting member Early bird discount on all meetings, all the time Opportunity to promote implementation case study Free half-day seat at HL7 WGM tutorial every year Special recognition in HL7 press release and promotional material Special recognition in HL7 newsletter and on the website Ability to transfer voting right to other individual within the organization Ability to share excerpt of standard Ability to post standard on company intranet Significant discount on HL7 meeting registration and other educational offering Free Member Advantage webinars Immediate access to HL7 standard Access to HL7's Global Membership Directory Be sure to review the complete list of membership benefit for each level to select the membership option that is right for you and your organization. *Applies to full individual membership, not the student membership. Note: All HL7 Memberships are non-refundable. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Product Brief Section 1: Primary StandardsSection 1d: Version 2 (V2)Section 2: Clinical and Administrative Domains HL7 Version 2 Product Suite DESCRIPTION Become an HL7 V2 certified control specialist today! and show the world you have standards! After you've completed your certification, don't forget to download your digital badge at . HL7s Version 2.x (V2) messaging standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the exchange of clinical data between systems. It is designed to support a central patient care system a well a a more distributed environment where data resides in departmental systems. Additional information on the V2 SOGI Data Exchange Profile at. TARGETS Healthcare IT Vendors Healthcare Providers BENEFITS Supports the majority of the common interface used in the healthcare industry globally Provides a framework for negotiation of what is not in the standard Reduces implementation cost Generally backward compatible IMPLEMENTATIONS/CASE STUDIES 95% of US healthcare organization use HL7 V2.x More than 35 country have HL7 V2.x implementation DEVELOPMENT BACKGROUND As one of the most widely implemented standard for healthcare information in the world, the Version 2 Messaging Standard wa first released in October 1987 a an Application Protocol for Electronic Data Exchange in Healthcare Environments. Version 2.7, representing the latest update to the Version 2 Standard, wa published in 2011. Due to it widespread use, Version 2 will continue to play an integral part in healthcare messaging, even with the HL7 Version 3 Normative Edition. HL7 is committed to supporting and extending Version 2 in parallel with Version 3, providing continuity for current installations. RELATED DOCUMENTS HL7 Version 2 Product Suite German Message Profiles for HL7 Version 2.5 (in German) (4.46 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.2 (2.70 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.3 (4.05 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.3.1 (6.26 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.4 (6.58 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.5 (11.31 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.5.1 (11.02 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.6 (13.69 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.7 (32.89 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.7.1 (39.32 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.8 (29.07 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.8.1 (28.73 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.8.2 (45.16 MB) HL7 Messaging Standard Version 2.9 (59.19 MB) HL7 V2 Implementation Guide Quality Criteria, Release 1 (324 KB) HL7 V2.2 Implementation Guide (342 KB) HL7 V2.3 Implementation Guide (675 KB) HL7 V2.3.1 Implementation Guide (767 KB) HL7 Version 2 Conformance Methodology Release 1 (3.16 MB) HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; fully LOINC-Qualified Cytogenetic Model, Release 1 - US Realm (455 KB) HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics; Fully LOINC-Qualified Genetic Variation Model (US Realm) (450 KB) HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Diagnostic Audiology Results, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Test Compendium Framework, Release 1 (852 KB) HL7 Version 2 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Value Set Companion Guide, Release 2 - US Realm (2.81 MB) HL7 Version 2.3.1 Messaging Addenda (12 KB) HL7 Version 2.3.1 Messaging Schemas (241 KB) HL7 Version 2.3.1 Specification Errata (13 KB) HL7 Version 2.4 Messaging Addenda HL7 Version 2.4 Messaging Schemas (278 KB) HL7 Version 2.4 Specification Errata (15 KB) HL7 Version 2.4 Specification Technical Correction: P03 and P11 Trigger Events (154 KB) HL7 Version 2.4 Specification Technical Correction: P03 Updates (416 KB) HL7 Version 2.5 Messaging Schemas (328 KB) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health, Release 1 (US Realm) (2.71 MB) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health, Release 2 (US Realm) (2.01 MB) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Height and Weight Report, Release 1 (US Realm) [HL7 Version 2.5.1: ORU^R01] (785 KB) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Orders (LOI) from EHR, Release 1, STU Release 4 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Laboratory Results Interface, Release 1 STU Release 4 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders and Observations; Ambulatory Lab Result (ELINCS), Release 1 (2.06 MB) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Orders and Observations; Interoperable Laboratory Result Reporting to EHR, Release 1 (1.07 MB) HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: S&I Framework Laboratory Test Compendium Framework (eDOS), Release 2 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.5.1 Implementation Guide: Syndromic Surveillance, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.5.1 Messaging Schemas (328 KB) HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Blood Bank Donation Services (US Realm), Release 1 (1.47 MB) HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) Results Release 1 (618 KB) HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Newborn Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects (CCHD), Release 1 (704 KB) HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Vital Records Birth and Fetal Death Reporting, Release 1 STU Release 2 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.6 Implementation Guide: Vital Records Death Reporting, Release 1 STU 2 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.6 Messaging Schemas (372 KB) HL7 Version 2.7 Messaging Schemas (362 KB) HL7 Version 2.7.1 Messaging Schemas (359 KB) HL7 Version 2.8 Messaging Schemas (377 KB) HL7 Version 2.8.1 Messaging Errata (View Brief) (4.39 MB) HL7 Version 2.8.1 Messaging Schemas (378 KB) HL7 Version 2.8.2 Implementation Guide: Immunization Messaging, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 Version 2.8.2 Messaging Schemas (386 KB) HL7 Version 2.9 Messaging Schemas (401 KB) HL7 Version 2.9.1 Messaging Standard - An Application Protocol for Electronic Data Exchange in Healthcare Environments HL7 Version 2.x Message Profiling Specification (264 KB) HL7 Version 2.x Messaging Schemas HL7 Version 2.x XML Example Messages (142 KB) HL7-NCPDP Electronic Prescribing Coordination Mapping Document, Release 1 (1.91 MB) Secure HL7 Transactions using Internet mail, Rev 1.7 (214 KB) Standard Guide for Implementing HL7 EDIT Communication Security (208 KB) V2.2 Implementation Support Guide (342 KB) V2.3 Implementation Support Guide (675 KB) V251 Implementation Guide: Electronic Laboratory Reporting to Public Health (US Realm), Release 1 Errata (179 KB) Version 2 v2.xml XML Schemas for HL7 Version 2.5 and earlier (1.58 MB) Version 2.x Common Audit Message (250 KB) XML Encoding Rules for Version 2 Messages, Release 2 (HL7 Version 2: XML Encoding Syntax, Release 2) (797 KB) XML Encoding Rules (HL7 Version 2: XML Encoding Syntax, Release 1) (526 KB) BALLOT TYPE Informative Normative STATUS DATE FAMILY V2 CURRENT STATE Stable REALM Universal Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Product Brief Section 1a: Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) CDA (HL7 Clinical Document Architecture) DESCRIPTION The HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup standard that specifies the structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of exchange between healthcare provider and patients. It defines a clinical document a having the following six characteristics: 1) Persistence, 2) Stewardship, 3) Potential for authentication, 4) Context, 5) Wholeness and 6) Human readability. A CDA can contain any type of clinical content -- typical CDA document would be a Discharge Summary, Imaging Report, Admission & Physical, Pathology Report and more. The most popular use is for inter-enterprise information exchange, such a is envisioned for a US Health Information Exchange (HIE). Publication Date Version Description sequence Current_Version January 2021 erratum 2.1 Latest Published Version Available for Implementer Review and Consideration () zip file November 2019 2.1 Initial Normative Release - Available for Implementer Review and Consideration (recently introduced, low adoption) () zip file Sequence Current_Version 2010 Normative Reaffirmation 2 January 2006 2 Current Official Published Version Equivalent content in an easier to navigate web framework () April 2005 2.0 First Version of CDA 2.0 (no longer accessible on HL7.org) CDA R1.0 Sequence November 2000 1.1 First version of CDA 1.0 () TARGETS Healthcare Providers Healthcare IT Vendors EHR and PHR Systems Departmental Systems Dictation/Transcription Vendors BENEFITS Supports the exchange of clinical document between those involved in the care of a patient Supports the re-use of clinical data for public health reporting, quality monitoring, patient safety and clinical trial Can be reused in multiple application Provides a mature and proven architecture for structured and unstructured document that integrates with HL7 FHIR IMPLEMENTATIONS/CASE STUDIES International user in country where health information exchange (HIE) is well established such a Finland, Greece and Germany Pilot HIEs in Canada, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Argentina and elsewhere CDA is firmly in the plan for many of the nascent US HIEs and the US Military Health System Columbia-Presbyterian in New York: Project on CDA note generation with knowledge management and controlled vocabulary Queen Elizabeth II Hospital/Dalhousie University: CDA for decision support Duke Clinical Research Institute: CDA a the Single Source Proof of Concept The Mayo Clinic is the largest single producer of CDA documents, producing thousand of CDAs every week with the anticipation of reaching 50,000 note per week DEVELOPMENT BACKGROUND CDA grew out of work that originated outside of HL7 in early 1996 when a group of physician including Tom Lincoln, John Spinosa, Dan Essin, John Mattison and Bob Dolin began to meet to discus the potential for structured markup in clinical documents. The earliest draft wa called the Kona Architecture and wa developed in 1997 after the group had joined HL7. Since that time, many people have worked on it and the basic idea have been refined and developed along with the HL7 Version 3 framework and the Reference Information Model (RIM). The original group morphed into the HL7 Structured Documents Work Group which is responsible for CDA and other HL7 document types. CDA introduces the concept of incremental semantic interoperability. What this mean is that there is a range of complexity allowed within the specification and user must set their own level of compliance. The minimal CDA is a small number of XML-encoded metadata field (such a provider name, document type, document identifier, and so on) and a body which can be any commonly-used MIME type such a pdf or .doc (Microsoft Word) or even a scanned image file. While the body of such a document would not be interpretable for application like decision support, the minimal, standard metadata set and display characteristic mean that such a document could be filed, searched, categorized and retrieved along with more richly-encoded documents. They would all be equally readable at the point of care. CDA also support the exchange of a rich set of structured data element encompassed within an organization of standardized section comprised by the document. The body of the document present the information it contains in a human readable format. It also carry the information in data structure that are machine processable. The discrete data is interpretable for application like decision support and quality measurement and can be used to improve efficiency and effectiveness of many clinical and administrative process within healthcare. CDA R2.0 is widely adopted throughout the world with heavy adoption in Canada, Austria, Denmark, France, New Zealand, and US. In April of 2019 the US Carequality reported a volume of over $35 Million C-CDA document available through it network. CDA R2.1 requested publication in August 2019 and the newly formed HL7 CDA Management Group together with the HL7 Structured Workgroup will work with the implementer community to raise awareness of the change and improvement to determine a feasible roadmap for adoption. RELATED DOCUMENTS CDA (HL7 Clinical Document Architecture) C-CDA (HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes - US Realm) CDA R2.1 (HL7 Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2.1) (25.19 MB) CDA Release 1 (1.95 MB) CDA Release 2 (4.35 MB) HL7 CCD to ASCII Blue Button Transform, Release 1 HL7 CDA Release 2 Implementation Guide: Reporting to Public Health Cancer Registries from Ambulatory Healthcare Providers, Release 1, DSTU Release 1.1 US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Dental Data Exchange, Release 1, STU 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Attachment Implementation Guide: Exchange of C-CDA Based Documents, Release 2 - US Realm (1.12 MB) HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA Templates for Clinical Notes R1 Companion Guide, Release 1 - US Realm (3.25 MB) HL7 CDA R2 IG: C-CDA Templates for Clinical Notes R2.1 Companion Guide, Release 4.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide International Patient Summary, Release 1 HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Ambulatory and Hospital Healthcare Provider Reporting to Birth Defect Registries Release 1 , STU 2 -US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Birth and Fetal Death Reporting, Release 1, STU Release 2 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Infectious Disease, Release 1, STU 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Nutrition, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Occupational Data for Health Release 1, STU Release 1.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA R2.1 Supplemental Templates for Pregnancy Status, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA R2.1; Advance Directives Templates, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: C-CDA Supplemental Templates for Unique Device Identifier (UDI) for Implantable Medical Devices, Release 1 - US Realm (1.04 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Oncology Treatment Plan and Summary, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Clinical Summary Relevant and Pertinent Data, Release 1 (1.65 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Data Provenance, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Emergency Medical Services; Patient Care Report Release 3 - US Realm (1.10 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Emergency Medical Services; Patient Care Report, Release 1 US Realm (969 KB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: ePOLST: Portable Medical Orders About Resuscitation and Initial Treatment, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Exchange of C-CDA Based Documents; Periodontal Attachment, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 3 - US Realm (13.36 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Medication Therapy Management (MTM) Templates, Release 1 - US Realm (2.77 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: National Health Care Surveys (NHCS), R1 STU Release 3.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports for Antimicrobial Use (AU) in Long Term Care Facilities (HAI_AULTC_CDA), STU Edition 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports for Long Term Care Facilities (HAI-LTCF-CDA), Release 1, STU 1.2 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: NHSN Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 4, STU 2.2 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Orthodontic Attachment, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Patient-Friendly Language for Consumer User Interfaces, Release 1 (3.75 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Personal Advance Care Plan Document, Edition 1 STU3.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report, Release 1 (1.39 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Pharmacist Care Plan Document, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Pharmacy Templates, Edition 1 STU Release 2 HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Privacy Consent Directives, Release 1 (785 KB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Public Health Case Report - the Electronic Initial Case Report (eICR) Release 2, STU Release 3.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Public Health Case Report, Release 1 - US Realm (1.27 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Quality Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA III), Release 1 - US Realm (1.87 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Quality Reporting Document Architecture - Category I (QRDA I) - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Reportability Response, Release 1, STU Release 1.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Supplemental QRDA Clinical Quality Data Sharing User Guide, Release 1 (585 KB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Trauma Registry Data Submission, Release 2 - US Realm (1.75 MB) HL7 CDA R2 Implementation Guide: Vital Records Death Reporting, Release 1 STU 2.1 - US Realm HL7 CDA Release 2 Implementation Guide: Additional CDA R2 Templates Clinical Documents for Payers Set 1, Release 1 US Realm HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2 - Supplement to Consolidated CDA for Attachments, Release 1 (671 KB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Consult Notes, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: History and Physical (H&P) Notes, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Patient Generated Document Header Template, Release 1 (532 KB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Plan-to-Plan Personal Health Record (PHR) Data Transfer, Release 1 (1.24 MB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA R2: Progress Note HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2 - Level 1 and 2 - Care Record Summary (US realm) (1.78 MB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2 - Level 3: Healthcare Associated Infection Reports, Release 2 - US Realm (9.05 MB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Care Record Summary Discharge Summary HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: CDA Framework for Questionnaire Assessments, DSTU Release 2 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Digital Signatures and Delegation of Rights, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Exchange of Clinical Trial Subject Data; Patient Narratives, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Genetic Testing Reports, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 1 (4.46 MB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: HIV/AIDS Services Report, Release 1 - US Realm (3.04 MB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Long-Term Post-Acute Care Summary, DSTU Release 1 (US Realm) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Patient Assessments, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Questionnaire Form Definition Document, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Questionnaire Response Document, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Reporting to Public Health Cancer Registries from Ambulatory Healthcare Providers, Release 1 - US Realm (4.88 MB) HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA, Release 2: Procedure Note, Release 1 HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA, Release 2: Unstructured Documents HL7 Implementation Guide: S&I Framework Transitions of Care Companion Guide to Consolidated-CDA for Meaningful Use Stage 2, Release 1 US Realm (3.04 MB) HL7 Implementation Guides for CDA R2: greenCDA Modules for CCD, Release 1 (610 KB) HL7 Informative Document: C-CDA Rubric Criteria, Release 1 - US Realm (583 KB) HL7 Standard for CDA Release 2: Imaging Integration; Basic Imaging Reports in CDA and DICOM, Release 1 (3.30 MB) HL7 Version 3 Implementation Guide for CDA R2 L3: Neonatal Care Reports (NCR), R1 HL7/ASTM Implementation Guide for CDA R2 -Continuity of Care Document (CCD) Release 1 (4.10 MB) Presentation: Overview of Care Record Summary (227 KB) Quick Start Guide for CDA R2 ADDITIONAL DETAILS For quick answer to the most frequently asked question about the Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) standard, see the CDA Frequently Asked Questions page at. BALLOT TYPE Normative STATUS DATE RESPONSIBLE WORK GROUP STAKEHOLDERS EHR, PHR Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions FAMILY CDA CURRENT STATE Active REALM Universal Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Product Brief Section 1: Primary StandardsSection 1c: FHIRSection 2: Clinical and Administrative Domains FHIR (HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) DESCRIPTION FHIR is an interoperability standard intended to facilitate the exchange of healthcare information between healthcare providers, patients, caregivers, payers, researchers, and any one else involved in the healthcare ecosystem. It consists of 2 main part a content model in the form of resources, and a specification for the exchange of these resource in the form of real-time RESTful interface a well a messaging and Documents. The standard is available at For a C-suite level overview see On April 24, 2018, a technical correction wasapplied to correct two broken link a described in. On October 31, 2019, a technical correction wasapplied to correct issue described in. For access to the HL7 FHIR Standard and online reference guide ALTERNATIVE NAMES FHIR (HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) may also go by the following name or acronyms: HL7 FHIR R4B, "HL7 FHIR R4 Observation, Release 1", "HL7 FHIR R4 Patient, Release 1", "HL7 FHIR R4 Terminology & Conformance, Release 1", "HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), R1", "HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR)", FHIR, FHIR Terminology, FHIR Patient, FHIR Observation TARGETS Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Immunization Registries Quality Reporting Agencies Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) Regulatory Agency Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors Lab Vendors HIS Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Healthcare Institutions (hospitals, long term care, home care, mental health) BENEFITS Creates a common specification by which healthcare participant can share information Enables the development of application that benefit from access to of high quality information in a manner that implementers find a easy to use a possible Supports improvement in the delivery of healthcare including new initiative such a Value Based care IMPLEMENTATIONS/CASE STUDIES FHIR ha been implemented by numerous organizations, both a part of Connectathon interoperability event a well a for pilot implementations. A complete listing of Connectathon organization can be found here: Major vendor such a Epic, Cerner, Allscripts Apple Microsoft Google DEVELOPMENT BACKGROUND This standard contains artifact at different level of approval - see. Some Normative artifact contain a few part labeled a 'Trial Use'even though the artifact itself is labeled 'Normative' Some normative resource contain element labeled a 'trial-use' Some normative page contain section labeled a 'trial-use' The presence of mixed status element in a single specification reflects that overall development of consensus amongst the community, while some very specific part are known not to have the requisite level of implementation experience a the rest of the resource. To see the status of a particular artifact refer to Prior releases: FHIR R4 (HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources, Release 4) On April 24, 2018, a technical correction wasapplied to correct two broken link a described in. On October 31, 2019, a technical correction wasapplied to correct issue described in. HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (aka FHIR), Release 3 (STU): This DSTU is the third of several release expected to continue to a release in 2019 which will contain an initial set of normative material. During this draft period, change will occur, both in response to implementer feedback and through the incorporation of additional content. Adopters should consider the ramification of the possibility of future change when making use of this draft specification. Further guidance can be found here: On October 31, 2019, a technical correction wasapplied to correct issue described in. HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), DSTU Release 2:This second DSTU release includes a significant increase in the number of supported resource a well a revision to previously published resource reflecting implementer feedback. HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), DSTU Release 1: This DSTU is the second of several release expected to culminate in an initial normative release in 2017. During this draft period, change will occur, both in response to implementer feedback and through the incorporation of additional content. Adopters should consider the ramification of the possibility of future change when making use of this draft specification. Further guidance can be found here: RELATED DOCUMENTS FHIR (HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: minimal Common Oncology Data Elements (mCODE) Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Guidance: Quality Reporting, Release 1 - US Realm (877 KB) HL7 FHIR IG: Payer Coverage Decision Exchange, R1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR IG: SMART Web Messaging Implementation Guide, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Bidirectional Services eReferrals (BSeR), STU1, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Bulk Data Access IG, Release 2 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Cancer Pathology Data Sharing, Release 1 - US Realm (112 KB) HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Central Cancer Registry Reporting Content IG, Edition 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Clinical Data Exchange (CDex), Release 1 STU 2.0 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Clinical Decision Support for Immunizations, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Clinical Genomics, STU2 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Clinical Guidelines, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Clinical Research Sponsor Laboratory Semantics in FHIR, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: CodeX Radiation Therapy, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Common Data Model Harmonization for Research (CDMH), Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Consumer Directed Payer Data Exchange (CARIN IG for Blue Button), Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Consumer-facing Real-time Pharmacy Benefit Check, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Coverage Requirements Discovery (CRD), Edition 2 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: COVID-19 FHIR Clinical Profile Library, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Data Exchange for Quality Measures STU4 for FHIR R4, Edition 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: DaVinci Payer Data Exchange US Drug Formulary, Release 1 STU2 - US Realm (54 KB) HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Digital Insurance Card, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Documentation Templates and Rules (DTR), Edition 2 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Electronic Case Reporting (eCR), Release 2.1.1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Electronic Long-Term Services & Supports (eLTSS), Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Electronic Medicinal Product Information, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIR for FAIR, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIR Shorthand, Release 2 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIR to CDISC Joint Mappings, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: FHIRcast, Release 1, STU2 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Health Care Surveys Content, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Health Record Exchange (HRex) Framework, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 1, STU 2.1 US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Hybrid/Intermediary Exchange, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: ICHOM Patient Centered Outcomes Measure Set for Breast Cancer, Edition 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Identity Matching, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) Structured Data Capture/electronic Cancer Protocols (sdc/ecc) on FHIR, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) Structured Data Capture/electronic Cancer Protocols on FHIR, Edition 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: International Patient Access (IPA), Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: International Patient Summary, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Longitudinal Maternal & Infant Health Information for Research, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Making Electronic Data More Available for Research and Public Health (MedMorph) Reference Architecture, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Medicolegal Death Investigation (MDI), Release 1.1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Member Attribution List, Edition 2 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Military Service History and Status Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: NHSN Healthcare Associated Infection (HAI) Reports for Long Term Care Facilities (HAI-LTCF-FHIR), Release 1 STU 1.1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: PACIO Advance Directive Interoperability, Edition 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: PACIO Personal Functioning and Engagement, Edition 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: PACIO Re-assessment Timepoints, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Patient Cost Transparency, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Payer Data Exchange (PDex) Payer Network, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Payer Data Exchange (PDex), Release 2 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Personal Health Device (PHD), Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Pharmacist Care Plan Document, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Physical Activity, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Post-Acute Care Cognitive Status, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Post-Acute Care Functional Status, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Prior-Authorization Support (PAS), Edition 2 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Protocols for Clinical Registry Extraction and Data Submission (CREDS), Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Quality Measures, Release 1 STU4 US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Record Lifecycle Event (RLE), Edition 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Retrieval of Real World Data for Clinical Research, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Risk Adjustment, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Risk Based Contract Member Identification, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: SDOH Clinical Care, Release 2.1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Security for Registration, Authentication, and Authorization, Release 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Situational Awareness for Novel Epidemic Response (SANER) STU 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: SMART Application Launch Framework, Release 2.2 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Subscription R5 Backport, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: US Public Health Profiles Library, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Vital Records Birth and Fetal Death Reporting, Release 1 STU R1.1- US Realm HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Vital Records Common FHIR Profile Library, Release 1 HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide: Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR), Release 1 STU2.2 - US Realm HL7 FHIR Profile: Occupational Data for Health (ODH), Release 1 HL7 FHIR R4 Implementation Guide: Adverse Event Clinical Research R4 Backport, Edition 1 (104 KB) HL7 FHIR R4 Implementation Guide: At-Home In-Vitro Test Report, Release 1 - US Realm HL7 FHIR R4 Implementation Guide: Clinical Study Schedule of Activities, Edition 1 HL7 FHIR R4 Implementation Guide: QI-Core, Edition 1.6 - US Realm HL7 FHIR R4 Implementation Guide: Single Institutional Review Board Project (sIRB), Edition 1- US Realm HL7 FHIR US Core Implementation Guide STU 6 Release 6.1.0 HL7/NCPDP FHIR Implementation Guide: Specialty Medication Enrollment, Release 1 - US Realm STU DOCUMENTS HL7 FHIR Release 4B See the standard at . HL7 FHIR R4 Please see the resource detail for link and download instructions. Expiration Dec 2023 HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), Release 3 (STU) Please see the resource detail for link and download instructions. Expiration Mar 2019 HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), DSTU Release 2 Please see the resource detail for link and download instructions. Expiration Sep 2017 HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources Specification (FHIR), DSTU Release 1 Please see the resource detail for link and download instructions. Expiration Feb 2016 TOPICS Care Provision Clinical Genomics Clinical Quality Community-Based Health Decision Support Financial Management Laboratory Materials Management Medical Records Nutrition Patient Administration Patient Care Patient Referral Personnel Management Pharmacy Public Health Regulated Products Regulated Studies Scheduling Security and Privacy Terminology BALLOT TYPES Normative STU STATUS DATE 2022-05-28 RESPONSIBLE WORK GROUP PRODUCT TYPES Data Types Encoding Syntax Services Structures Transport(ebxml, cd, mllp) STAKEHOLDERS Clinical and Public Health Laboratories Clinical Decision Support Systems Vendors EHR, PHR Vendors Equipment Vendors Health Care IT Vendors Healthcare Institutions HIS Vendors Immunization Registries Lab Vendors Local and State Departments of Health Medical Imaging Service Providers Payors Pharmaceutical Vendors Quality Reporting Agencies Regulatory Agency Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) FAMILY FHIR CURRENT STATE Active REALM Universal Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International HL7 Standards for Health HL7 International foster a collaborative community that is committed to improving the health of people around the world through technology. How? By evolving and sharing standard for health information technology interoperability like the HL7 FHIR and the HL7 CDA standards. We make caring for patient safer. We make clinical research more effective. We make writing software more intuitive. We make paying for healthcare le costly. HL7 standard benefit everyone Data standard provide the common language that let different digital system work together - so everyone can securely access and use the right health information when and where they need it. Clinicians & Healthcare Providers Payers Solution Providers HL7 is a community effort HL7 standard are developed through the dedicated collaboration of over 4,000 volunteer worldwide who represent healthcare vendors, providers, payers, policy makers, consultant and others. Here are some way that HL7 member benefit from active support and participation: Help make healthcare better for everyone Jump-start innovation and speed time to launch on interoperability project Future-proof your business by staying ahead of standard and trend Learn and collaborate with peers, customers, competitors, and potential partner Influence new standard in way that matter to your business What I like about HL7 is that it's very mission-driven. There's very much a sense of higher purpose. I really feed off the opportunity to connect with others who are passionate and involved about interoperability. Tate Gilchrist, InterSystems Join HL7 Straight from the Source Designed for easy implementation, HL7's Fast Health Interoperability Resources (FHIR) standard combine the best of earlier HL7 standard with the latest web technology for health interoperability that's astonishingly quick and cost-effective to develop. For organization considering FHIR a a cure for interoperability headaches, HL7 is your source for all thing FHIR. HL7 FHIR is the HTML of healthcare. John Halamka, MD, CIO, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Clinicians and healthcare provider The continuum of care is critical in improving patient health. HL7 FHIR promise to integrate health data from separate silo to deliver continuous information. Why HL7? HL7 is your source to learn about FHIR and connect with others working on the same challenges. "Participating in standard requires investment, but there's a high return on that investment through more successful participation in initiative to reduce costs, create revenue, speed time to market, and ease reporting." - James McClay, MD, University of Nebraska Medical Center "With the exponential increase in the amount of data about humans, clinician need to roll up their sleeve and get involved with HL7 so we can contribute to building standard that work in the context of patient care." - Russ Leftwich, MD, InterSystems How you can get involved: Join an HL7 Work Group HL7 ha many work group relevant to clinician and healthcare providers, including in the area of anesthesia, clinical decision support, clinical quality, emergency care and patient care. These work group fall under the HL7 Clinical Steering Division, which defines the requirement and solution to support the need for communication information related to the creation, management, execution and quality of messages, services, resource and documents. More information available at: Clinicians on FHIR This is a hands-on program developed by the HL7 Patient Care Work Group for those familiar with clinical workflow to challenge FHIR resource and build simple FHIR profile around abbreviated clinical use cases. It also provides clinical expertise to the technical FHIR Connectathons and seek to education and evangelize other clinician about FHIR. More information available at: HL7 FHIR Accelerator Program This program is designed to assist community and collaborative group across the global healthcare spectrum in the creation and adoption of high quality HL7 FHIR implementation guide or other standard artifact to move toward the realization of global health data interoperability. More information available at: CARIN Alliance This alliance is led by providers, payers, consumers, pharmaceutical companies, consumer platform companies, health IT companies, and consumer-advocates who are working collaboratively with other stakeholder in government to overcome barrier in advancing consumer-directed exchange across the U.S. Its vision is to rapidly advance the ability for consumer and their authorized caregiver to easily get, use and share their digital health information when, where and how they want to achieve their goals. Learn more at CodeX This community is comprised of patients, providers, health systems, regulators, payer and EHR vendor addressing the need to obtain high quality, computable data for cancer care and research. The project's objective is to create a national platform for interoperable cancer data modeling, driven by use case that address the most urgent challenge in cancer care and research. Learn more at Da Vinci Project This project is comprised of industry leader and health IT technical expert who are working together to accelerate the adoption of HL7 FHIR a the standard to support and integrate value-based care (VBC) data exchange across communities. It focus on the payer/provider collaboration needed to identify and enable information exchange to positively impact clinical, quality, cost and care management outcomes. The project is looking for provider that want to test and implement the artifact for it use cases, such a data exchange for quality measure and coverage requirement discovery. Learn more at Gravity This project is comprised of a broad stakeholder group and focus on identifying and harmonizing social risk factor data for interoperable electronic health information exchange. It aim to standardize medical code to facilitate the use of social determinant of health-related data in patient care, care coordination between the health and human service sectors, population health management, value-based payment and clinical research. Learn more at Reducing Clinician Burden Project This project is managed by the HL7 Electronic Health Records (EHR) Work Group. It focus on clinician burden and burnout (including time and data quality burdens) a it relates to the use of EHR/HIT systems. It considers the following: clinical practice at the point of care; regulatory, accreditation, administrative, and payer mandates; EHR/HIT system design functionality, usability and implementation; and data quality and usability. The project is reviewing reference source to document the substance, impact and extent of clinical burden in order to use the finding to influence the future direction of HL7 standard development efforts. More information available at: Payers HL7 FHIR provides access to clinical data such a precision medicine and clinical decision support and advance value-based care by improving work flow, care quality and quality reporting. Why HL7? HL7 is your source for the latest FHIR solution to improve health and control cost across health populations. "As payer we need to stay engaged in the interoperability standard setting process lest our growing need for provider collaboration and member information will go unmet." - Joe Miller, Director of Strategy and Innovation, AmeriHealth Caritas (remarks from an ONC meeting) "The healthcare industry ha spoken about patient-centric healthcare for years, but major stakeholder like payers, providers, and government agency had designed and procured solution that were best suited for institution rather than how patient actually wish to consume care. True "patient-serving" innovation and delivery system transformation requires payer/provider collaboration from the start and it is here that FHIR can play a valuable role. The AHIP Innovation Lab is proud to help HL7 operationalize meaningful shift that enable "patient-serving" initiative to achieve optimal utilization level across the multi-stakeholders in our ecosystem these type of collaborative innovation model are being proven more and more frequently, with le time to market, and are creating a viable path to outcome driven healthcare for the consumer we all have the privilege of serving." - Rahul Dubey,SVP, Innovations and Solutions- AHIP, Founder of the AHIP Innovation Lab "In a collaborative effort with health providers, health plan are rapidly moving toward alternative payment method that are value-based, leveraging clinical and financial data to provide consumer better care with better outcome at a lower cost. By adopting HL7 standard that are capable of resolving many of the healthcare IT ecosystem barriers, we can achieve consumer-first, affordable healthcare delivery." - Frank Viviano, Director of Technology Strategy, Data Exchange Solutions, Cambia Health Solutions Solution Providers HL7 FHIR can ensure your solution easily connects to any EHR faster and easier than ever before. Why HL7? HL7 is your source to learn how you can best leverage FHIR and to collaborate in a community focused on interoperability. "HL7 is a rock-solid convener that doesn't choose sides. They create a neutral space where our tech people can work shoulder-to-shoulder with competitor and customer to make it easier and easier to connect system from different vendors." - Carl Dvorak, President, Epic "The true value of HL7 lie in active participation. The cost of the knowledge we gain from participating a a member of HL7 more than repays itself in increased speed to market and reduced development costs." - Mark Segal, PhD, GE Healthcare Digital Become a member of HL7's vibrant community of innovative leader in global healthcare Join HL7 2007-2017 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 Fundamentals HL7 Fundamentals Course 2024 Courses February 8 May 2, 2024 May 23 August 15, 2024 (Registration close May 17) September 5 November 28, 2024 Learn by Doing The HL7 Fundamentals Course is fundamentally different. This introductory, 12-week workshop us a set of guided exercise to learn by practice and example. This asynchronous course is ideal for those new to HL7 and it family of standard including Version 2 (V2), Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) and Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR). See the . Who should attend: Newcomers to HL7 Those who wish to gain an overall technical experience of HL7 standard At the end of the course, participant will be able to: Confront a project involving interoperability among disjointed healthcare information system Read the most widely used HL7 standard Understand the need for controlled vocabularies, master file and entity registry Read and write V2.X message Read and write CDA R2 document Identify FHIR specification and resource Decide when to use each artifact (messages, documents) What to Expect This is an asynchronous (no live lectures), instructor-led online course that allows you to work at your own pace. Learning take place through discussion with the instructor, tutor and peers. Assessments are in the form of weekly assignments, quizzes, exam and projects. Plan on spending 5 to 7 hour per week. There are no live lecture to attend. You can expect: An instructor who will provide reading material and assignment HL7-certified tutor helping you step-by-step Discussion forum that promote engagement and interaction Integration activity stewarded by the teaching team Self evaluation quiz to test comprehension How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price $525 HL7 Members $790 Non-members $420 Middle Income Countries* $315 Lower Income Countries* $420 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries a . **Students are required to submit proof of active enrollment (taking class during the duration of the course) in a Bachelor's, Master's or Doctoralprogram at an accredited university or college (in English). Certificate program do not qualify for the discount. Images cannot be submitted. Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college and taking class during the duration of the course. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the duration of the course. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register for the Exam In order to register now and pay later, please choose the pay by check option at check out. To pay later with a credit card, log into HL7, choose "My Account" on the right side, scroll all the way to the bottom and paying the invoice. You can also pay by check or wire transfer. Payment should be received by HL7 before the start of the course. Additional Course Information (236 KB) Upcoming Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 FHIR Intermediate HL7 FHIR Intermediate Course 2024 Courses February 15 March 28, 2024 May 30 July 11, 2024 (Registration close May 24) September 12 October 24, 2024 Learn by Doing The HL7FHIRIntermediate Course is a six-week online course that provides opportunity to apply newly gained knowledge with a set of guided exercise for learning by developing and reviewing working software. Learn more about This course is recommended for DEVELOPERS who: Are already familiar with FHIR and want to delve deep into the knowledge required to use it for real world project Have with experience programming with C#, Java and/or JavaScript Wish to gain an overall technical experience of SMART on FHIR and CDS Hooks At the end of the course, participant will be able to: Understand the scope and content of the Argonaut and IPS IG Comprehend the general characteristic of a FHIR client Understand and modify a FHIR client in C#, Java or JavaScript Understand the mechanism for FHIR server used a API facade Use SMART on FHIR to connect to a EHR Use CDS Hooks to provide clinical decision support for an application or system See the . What to Expect This is an asynchronous, instructor-led online course that allows you to work at your own pace. Learning take place through discussion with the instructor, tutor and peers. Assessments are in the form of weekly assignments, quizzes, exam and projects. Plan on spending five to seven hour per week. There are no live lecture to attend. You can expect: Instructors who are HL7 FHIR expert and working professional HL7-certified tutor providing evaluation and feedback on each module Discussion forum that promote engagement and interaction Practical exercise within each module to apply what you have learned Prerequisites Prior experience in HL7 FHIR is required (completing the HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Course before taking this course is recommended) Familiarity with C#, Java and/or JavaScript is strongly recommended Recommended for developer only How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price $650 HL7 Members $975 Non-members $525 Middle Income Countries* $400 Lower Income Countries* $525 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries a . **Students currently enrolled and taking class from accredited Bachelor, Master or Doctoral program are eligible for this discount. Certificate program do not qualify. Students are required to submit proof of active enrollment in an accredited university or college (in English). Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college a of the date of registration for the certification exam. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the date of registration for the certification exam. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register Now! Additional Course Information Upcoming Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > > HL7 FHIR Exam Prep HL7 FHIR Exam Prep The Comprehensive HL7 FHIR Proficiency Exam Preparation Course 2024 Courses February 29 - March 28, 2024 June 13 - July 11, 2024 (Registration close June 7) Overview The Comprehensive HL7 FHIR Proficiency Exam Preparation Courseis a four-week, self-paced course that will prepare participant for taking the and teach FHIR concept in detail. Who should attend: Those wanting to take the HL7 FHIR Proficiency Exam and wanting to learn FHIR conceptually Upon completion of the course, participant will: Obtain a solid knowledge of the concept required to pas the HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam Understand the test format and type of question found in the exam Apply appropriate test taking strategy to deduce the correct answer in the exam Practice thoroughly for exam by taking 150+ objective quiz question See the . What to Expect This is an instructor-led and tutor-assisted online course. Each module will consist of recorded lectures, reading material and quizzes. Over the four weeks, there will be multiple webinar session totaling 15 hour of recorded lecture and one hour of Q&A for each week's topics. Students will take 100+ quiz question across five module to test knowledge gained during course.Students will also attempt a 50-question final exam to simulate the HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam. Prerequisites Though not mandatory, it is good to have basic FHIR knowledge Disclaimers All activity are quizzes/objective assessment. Course doe not have any hand on/subjective exercises. Course is not a substitute of any existing HL7 FHIR courses. Course doe not guarantee passing of proficiency exam. How to Enroll If registration for an upcoming course is open: When available, click on the Register button in the upper right side of the page Follow the instruction to register and pay for the course Make sure to to receive the member discount. If you have question or experience difficulty registering for the course, please contact the . Course Price Note: Course price includes the four-week course and doe not include the fee to take the actual HL7 FHIR R4 Proficiency Exam. $450 HL7 Members $675 Non-members $350 Middle Income Countries* $275 Lower Income Countries* $350 Students** *Low and Middle Income Countries a **Students are required to submit proof of enrollment in an accredited university or college (in English). Only student enrolled in an accredites Bachelor, Master oror Doctoral program are eligible for this discount. Certificate student are not eligible. Either of the following document is acceptable proof of enrollment: A transcript showing the student is actively enrolled in the university or college a of the date of registration for the certification exam. A letter from the Dean or Department chair stating that the student is enrolled for a time period that includes the date of registration for the certification exam. This letter must be on school letterhead, display a school seal or logo and contain a signature and phone number of the Dean or Department Chair. Cancellation Policy The course fee minus $50 processing fee will be refunded for cancellation before close of registration. For all cancellation after close of registration, there will be no refunds. Register Now! Additional Course Information Upcoming Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Education Calendar Education Calendar Learn more about our options. Don't see a training event that fit your schedule? Access training immediately at . HL7 Online Classes & Webinars RSS May 7, 2024 to May 8, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) May 7, 2024 12:00 AM May 8, 2024 12:00 AM Introduction to HL7 FHIR (French) Online Class Online Class May 15, 2024 - Free Webinar Add to Calendar Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) May 15, 2024 12:00 AM May 15, 2024 12:00 AM Understanding the HL7 International Organization An Orientation to Working Group Meetings, Process and Governance (free) Free Webinar Free Webinar Jun 18, 2024 to Jun 20, 2024 - Online Class Add to Calendar SMART on FHIR & CDS Hooks Jun 18, 2024 12:00 AM Jun 20, 2024 12:00 AM SMART on FHIR & CDS Hooks Online Class Online Class Sep 9, 2024 to Sep 11, 2024 - HL7 Education Partner Class Add to Calendar Hands-On HL7 FHIR Data Modeling & Profiling Sep 9, 2024 12:00 AM Sep 11, 2024 12:00 AM Hands-On HL7 FHIR Data Modeling & Profiling HL7 Education Partner Class HL7 Education Partner Class Learn out more about our . Fundamentals Courses RSS May 23, 2024 to Aug 15, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 Fundamentals May 23, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 15, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course May 30, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Intermediate May 30, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Intermediate Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jun 13, 2024 to Jul 11, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Jun 13, 2024 12:00 AM Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Exam Prep Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Jul 11, 2024 to Aug 8, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Jul 11, 2024 12:00 AM Aug 8, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 FHIR Fundamentals Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Sep 5, 2024 to Oct 10, 2024 - Asynchronous Course Add to Calendar HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Sep 5, 2024 12:00 AM Oct 10, 2024 12:00 AM HL7 V2 to FHIR Mapping Asynchronous Course Asynchronous Course Learn out more about or . Download the Education Catalog Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > About HL7 About HL7 Founded in 1987, Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a not-for-profit, ANSI-accredited standard developing organization dedicated to providing a comprehensive framework and related standard for the exchange, integration, sharing, and retrieval of electronic health information that support clinical practice and the management, delivery and evaluation of health services. HL7 is supported by more than 1,600 member from over 50 countries, including 500+ corporate member representing healthcare providers, government stakeholders, payers, pharmaceutical companies, vendors/suppliers, and consulting firms. Watch a quick overview of New to HL7? Learn the rope at the . HL7 Vision A world in which everyone can securely access and use the right health data when and where they need it. HL7 Mission To provide standard that empower global health data interoperability. HL7 - What Does it Mean? "Level Seven" refers to the seventh level of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) seven-layer communication model for Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) - the application level. The application level interface directly to and performs common application service for the application processes. Although other protocol have largely superseded it, the OSI model remains valuable a a place to begin the study of network architecture. HL7's People and Organizations See a list of or download the . Join Us! Become a member or share your talent a a volunteer. | Reports, Guidelines and Procedures (pdf) Need Help? If you see a HL7 FHIR mark being used in any way that could be infringing or is contrary to HL7 Trademark Policy please . We really appreciate your help! Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Elections Nominations and Elections HL7 International hold annual election to fill position on the board of director and technical steering committee. Materials for nomination will be available on May 1. Information on election will be available when election open on July 1. During nomination and election periods, a table will identify position being elected, indicate who can submit a vote and provide a link to each election site. Please note that you must be signed onto the website with your username/password to see the link to the election sites. Elections Resources will be available during the annual election period, the 'No Documents Available' message appears when we're outside of the election period. The following table identifies the position being elected this year, indicates who can submit a vote, and provides a link to each election site. Please note that you must be signed onto the website with your username/password to see the link to the election sites. Position Eligibility Requirements Who Can Submit Votes Link to submit Votes HL7 Chair Elect Nominees for an Officer position (Chair Elect, Secretary, or Treasurer) must have been a current individual member or designated voting representative of a current Organizational member of HL7 International for at least the last two year and shall have prior leadership experience in HL7 such a committee or council chair, Work Group co-chair, TSC member, or member of the Board of Directors. All current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational and Affiliate members. HL7 Secretary Nominees for an Officer position (Chair Elect, Secretary, or Treasurer) must have been a current individual member or designated voting representative of a current Organizational member of HL7 International for at least the last two year and shall have prior leadership experience in HL7 such a committee or council chair, Work Group co-chair, TSC member, or member of the Board of Directors. All current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational and Affiliate members. HL7 Directors (2) Nominees for HL7 Director must be current individual member or designated voting representative of current Organizational member and shall have held leadership position at the Work Group, council, and/or committee level or have comparable experience in other organizations. Current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational members. HL7 Affiliate Director (2) Nominees for HL7 Affiliate Director must be member in good standing of their Affiliate and should have held leadership position at the HL7 International Work Group, council, and/or committee level. Affiliate chair International Council Co-Chairs (2) Nominees for International Council Co-chair must be a current member of an HL7 International Affiliate. Nominations for International Council Co-chair shall be accepted from Affiliate member designated voting representatives. TSC Affiliate Representative (1) Any representative of current Affiliate member. Though not required, should be either a current or past Work Group Co-Chair. Affiliate chair TSC Implementer Representative (1) Any active member of an HL7 Product Implementer Community who ha the qualification a defined by the appropriate HL7 Product Management Group. Current individual member and the designated voting representative of current organizational members. TSC Working Group Representatives (3) Must be a current or past Work Group Co-Chair Current Co-Chairs Work Group Co-Chairs Must be an individual member or organizational member of HL7 International (voting or non-voting rep) or a verified member of an HL7 Affiliate. Must be subscribed to the main listserv of the Work Group holding the election and an individual member or organizational member of HL7 International (voting or non-voting rep) or a verified member of an HL7 Affiliate. . The nomination and election schedule is a follows: May 1 - June 15 45-day nomination period June 16 - 30 Final slate prepared by the Leadership Development and Nomination CommitteeNominee profile loaded to the election site July 1 - 31 30-day election period August 7 - 21 2-week run-off election (if needed) September 25 Results announced at the Annual Business Meeting There shall be no solicitation for nomination or subsequent campaigning conducted on any HL7-managed electronic communications. Any such activity shall be cause for disqualification. As noted above, the Nomination Packet is available from each of the link above. This packet contains form that each Nominee must complete and submit before the June 15, 2024, deadline. To assist with the nomination period, below are position up for nomination/election and a statement indicating whether the individual currently holding the position is eligible for re-election: 2024 Board Positions up for Nomination/Election: Chair Elect - no one currently in this role. Secretary - position currently held by Virginia Lorenzi, who is not eligible for re-election to this position. HL7 Director - position currently held by Lenel James, who is not eligible to be re-elected to this position, and Ken Rubin, who is eligible for re-election. HL7 Affiliate Director - position currently held by Line Saele and Ron Parker, both of whom are eligible for re-election. 2024 TSC Positions up for Nomination/Election: Implementer Rep - position currently held by James Agnew, who is eligible for re-election International Affiliate Rep - position held by Christof Gessner, who is not eligible for re-election 3 Work Group Reps - position held by Brian Pech and Juliet Rubini, both of whom are eligible for re-election, and Gora Datta, who is not eligible for re-election International Council Positions up for Nomination/Election: Co-Chairs - position currently held by Fernando Campos and Line Saele, both of whom are eligible for re-election. Work Group Co-Chair Positions up for Nomination/Election: Elections Resources (26 KB) (160 KB) (28 KB) (28 KB) (29 KB) (28 KB) (128 KB) (104 KB) (98 KB) (71 KB) (82 KB) (44 KB) (29 KB) Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > Newsroom HL7 Newsroom The HL7 Newsroom includes general information on HL7, executive bios, press releases, newsletter and other important news. If you are a member of the medium and require further assistance or wish to schedule an interview, please contact: Andrea Ribick Director of Communications +1 (734) 677-7777 More Information | HL7 Twitter Feed In the News RSS Industry News RSS No Documents Available Press Releases RSS (93 KB) (118 KB) (293 KB) (80 KB) (249 KB) HL7 Newsletters RSS (13.53 MB) (15.10 MB) (14.81 MB) Issue and Policy Statements RSS (319 KB) (391 KB) (367 KB) HL7 Annual Report RSS (13.57 MB) Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International > > Benefactor Members Benefactors Accenture Accenture's Health & Life Sciences professional deliver innovation and insight to both the private and public sector of the marketplace, which includes integrated healthcare providers, health insurers, managed care organizations, public health organization and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical product companies. Allscripts With the largest connected community of client in healthcare, Allscripts delivers an integrated platform of solution to facilitate enhanced collaboration and exchange of critical patient information. Were committed to delivering One Network, One Platform, One Patient. American Medical Association The AMA is working with physician to advance initiative that will help them navigate and succeed in a continually evolving health care environment. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/CDC The mission of the CDC is to promote health and quality of life by preventing and controlling disease, injury, and disability. As the nation's prevention agency, we accomplish our mission by working with partner throughout the nation and the world to: monitor health, detect and investigate health problems, conduct research to enhance prevention, develop and advocate sound public health policies, implement prevention strategies, promote healthy behaviors, foster safe and healthful environments, and provide leadership and training. Coalition for Health AI Duke Clinical & Translational Science Institute The DCRI is the world's largest academic clinical research organization. We combine the clinical expertise and academic leadership of a premier teaching hospital with the full-service operational capability of a major contract research organization. Edifecs, Inc. Edifecs is a leading healthcare technology company with the mission to improve healthcare outcomes, reduce cost and accelerate innovation. We empower healthcare organization to scale the partnership required by payment, care delivery and access reform initiative that are redefining the healthcare industry.We are disruptors, scientists, data nerds, doctor and artists.And we believe information technology can revolutionize healthcare. Epic Epic make software for mid-size and large medical groups, hospital and integrated healthcare organization working with customer that include community hospitals, academic facilities, children's organizations, safety net provider and multi-hospital systems. Our integrated software span clinical, access and revenue function and extends into the home. European Medicines Agency The mission of the European Medicines Agency is to foster scientific excellence in the evaluation and supervision of medicines, for the benefit of public and animal health in the European Union (EU). EMA is protecting human and animal health by facilitating the development and access to medicines, evaluating application for marketing authorisation, monitoring the safety of medicine across their life cycle, and providing reliable information on human and veterinary medicine in lay language. The Agency also play a role in supporting research and innovation in the pharmaceutical sector, and promotes innovation and development of new medicine by European micro-, small- and medium-sized-enterprises. Federal Electronic Health Record Modernization Office Providing our Service members, Veterans, and their family with world-class health care is of the utmost importance for both the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). A key component of this mission is ensuring interoperability between the Departments and their private partners. The DoD/VA Interagency Program Office (IPO) jointly oversees and monitor the effort of the Departments in implementing national health data standard for interoperability. Additionally, the IPO serf a the single point of accountability for identifying, monitoring, and approving the clinical and technical data standard and profile necessary to ensure seamless integration of health data between the DoD, VA, and the private sector. Food and Drug Administration The FDA is responsible for protecting the public health by assuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, medical devices, our nation's food supply, cosmetics, and product that emit radiation. The FDA is also responsible for advancing the public health by helping to speed innovation that make medicine and food more effective, safer, and more affordable; and helping the public get the accurate, science-based information they need to use medicine and food to improve their health. Google InterSystems Highlights of Products and ServicesEstablished in 1978, InterSystems is a leading provider of technology for extremely critical data in the healthcare, finance, and manufacturing and supply chain sectors. Its cloud-first data platform solve interoperability, speed, and scalability problem for large organization around the globe. InterSystems also develops and support uniquely managed service for hospital EMRs, unified care record for community and nations, and laboratory information management systems. InterSystems is committed to excellence through it award-winning, 247 support for customer and partner in more than 80 countries. Clients include the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, Intermountain Healthcare, Kaiser Permanente, and thousand of other successful organizations. Leading software provider also leverage InterSystems high-performance technology in their own products. These organization include Epic Systems, Optum, 3M Health Information Systems, and hundred of others. Privately held and headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, InterSystems ha 25 office worldwide. For more information, please visitOur solution and technology are designed to seamlessly meet the interoperability need of health and life science organizations:is a data platform which support the rapid development of highly scalable healthcare solution and advanced healthcare interoperability technology.To learn more, go toHealthShareUnified Care Record provides industry-acclaimed data aggregation, normalization, deduplication, and care management capability to create a unified, community-wide health record a the foundation for coordinated, value-based care and population health management.HealthShareHealth Connect is the high-performance integration engine delivering proven process management monitoring and support for massive transaction volume to keep your critical healthcare application running.InterSystems TrakCareunified healthcare information system transforms care delivery and the patient experience, and provides clinical, administrative, and financial information a a single source of truth for each patient in one electronic patient record (TrakCare is available outside the U.S. only).Highlights of the Use of the HL7 StandardsAt InterSystems we invest time and resource to stay on the cutting edge of the HL7 standard and build HL7 FHIR into a common technology stack for all our products. Some of the common use case include:Bridging between FHIR and other standard and document format such a HL7v2 and CDAEnabling new application to access legacy data by transforming the data to FHIR resourcesProviding a FHIR server implementation supporting a standard FHIR RESTful APIProvisioning a FHIR resource repository supporting all FHIR resource typesInterSystems ha been be a Benefactor Member of HL7 for two decades, in addition to our active membership in the HL7 Da Vinci Project, Project Vulcan, and the Carin Alliance. We're proud to support many of our application partner who use InterSystems technology and are also member of HL7. We actively participate in HL7 affiliate in many of the 38 affiliate countries.For more information, visit Kaiser Permanente Kaiser Permanente is America's leading integrated health plan. Founded in 1945, it is a not-for-profit, group practice prepayment program with headquarters in Oakland, California. Kaiser Permanente serf the health care need of over 8.2 million member in 9 state and the District of Columbia. Today it encompasses the not-for-profit Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and their subsidiaries, and the for-profit Permanente Medical Groups, a well a an affiliation with Group Health Cooperative based in Seattle. Nationwide, Kaiser Permanente includes approximately 136,000 technical, administrative and clerical employee and over 11,000 physician representing all specialties. Mass General Brigham Mass General Brigham is an integrated academic health care system, uniting great mind to solve the hardest problem in medicine for our community and the world. Mass General Brigham connects a full continuum of care across a system of academic medical centers, community and specialty hospitals, a health insurance plan, physician networks, community health centers, home care, and long-term care services. Mass General Brigham is a nonprofit organization committed to patient care, research, teaching, and service to the community. In addition, Mass General Brigham is one of the nation's leading biomedical research organization with several Harvard Medical School teaching hospitals. NCQA The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) exists to improve the quality of health care.We work for better health care, better choice and better health. Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT Health information technology (health IT) make it possible for health care provider to better manage patient care through secure use and sharing of health information. Health IT includes the use of electronic health record (EHRs) instead of paper medical record to maintain people's health information. Optum Optum is a health service and Innovation company whose mission is to help people live healthier life and the help make the health system work better for everyone.We are tackling the biggest challenge in health care by partnering across the entire system.Together, we transforing health care for a better future for eveyone we serve.Our partner choose u for our combination of unique capabilities.As a global team of 125,000+, our skill and expertise is matched only by the commitment and passion we share to transform health care. Oracle Pfizer Pfizer is a research-based global biopharmaceutical company whose purpose is grounded in our belief that all people deserve to live healthy lives. This drive our desire to provide access to medicine that are safe, effective, and affordable. Philips Healthcare Royal Philips (NYSE: PHG, AEX: PHIA) is a leading health technology company focused on improving people's health and enabling better outcome across the health continuum from healthy living and prevention, to diagnosis, treatment and home care. Philips leverage advanced technology and deep clinical and consumer insight to deliver integrated solutions. Headquartered in the Netherlands, the company is a leader in diagnostic imaging, image-guided therapy, patient monitoring and health informatics, a well a in consumer health and home care. Philips' health technology portfolio generated 2016 sale of EUR 17.4 billion and employ approximately 73,000 employee with sale and service in more than 100 countries. News about Philips can be found at." PointClickCare PointClickCareTechnologies is acompanydeveloping a healthcare technology platform that connects care, services, and financial operations. Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated Quest Diagnostics, a leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, is also a leader in the innovative use of standards-based technology for clinical laboratory service and disease management programs. Enterprise-wide deployment of HL7 and LOINC standard enable rapid interchange and integration of physician, patient, and third party data to provide unparalleled diagnostic insights. Ready Computing LLC Ready Computing ("Ready") is a full-service IT firm, specializing in software product and service that address the need of health and social care. From health information exchange, to population health, to care coordination, to community network resource management, Ready ha delivered many world class solution to healthcare organization around the globe.Established in 2011 and headquartered in New York City, Ready ha focused much of it effort on the definition of healthcare interoperability standard and the implementation of those standard in the product and service it delivers to it clients. Through a continuous loop of creativity and innovation, Ready help the standard evolve and it solution improve through "real world" project experiences. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is part of the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). As a major healthcare provider, VHA operates more than 170 medical center and 600 clinic and contract an additional $1B a year to outside provider for veteran healthcare. We are directly impacted by numerous internal and external factor such a government legislation and directives, the healthcare industry, the information technology industry and internal restructuring. Like many other organization the VHA ha been charged with reducing cost in a way that systematically produce clear, measurable and improved performance that translates into improved product and services. Each of these factor generates different pressure and make the interchange of healthcare information critical. Additionally, our size and complexity create special technical issue for us.VHA belief a major part of the solution to these challenge is through participation in the Health Level Seven organization. We are pleased to be a benefactor member and consider the success of HL7 a strategically important to us. VHA intends to be an early adopter of the HL7 Version 3 model and is particularly excited over the possibility of XML. We plan to be a major participant in the Government Projects SIG and look forward to partnering with other member a we expand our internal commercial off-the-shelf portfolio and develop additional provider relationships. A goal is to increase our involvement with the HL7 organization in the spirit of returning something for the many benefit we accrue. Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International HL7 FHIR ACCELERATOR Program The HL7 FHIR ACCELERATOR program is designed to assist community and collaborative group across the global health care spectrum in the creation and adoption of high quality FHIR Implementation Guides or other standard artifact to move toward the realization of global health data interoperability. HL7 FHIR ACCELERATORs operate within the HL7 organization, but they are separate initiative from regular HL7 International initiatives. Participation in FHIR Accelerators is open to all Paid membership in an Accelerator allows engagement and input on the work that will be undertaken by the Accelerator Paid membership in an Accelerator doe not include a membership in HL7 International (and it related privileges, including voting on the implementation guide created by the Accelerator and balloted through the HL7 process) HL7 membership doe not include membership privilege within any of the FHIR Accelerators Vision HL7 FHIR ha gained rapid acceptance on a global scale a an unprecedented, innovative platform standard that can truly enable health data interoperability. Since it inception, FHIR standard development ha focused on practical implementation and adoption. As an increasing array of use case emerges, end user and implementers across the health care spectrum are eager to apply the robust capability of FHIR to address discrete business need in their own business areas. HL7 ha served a a global convener for standard development to advance effective use of FHIR in meeting the need of stakeholder in the global healthcare ecosystem. Strategy HL7 will help convene and work with community and implementers with an interest in using FHIR to address common use cases. HL7's Accelerator service will help such community initiate and efficiently navigate through the standard development process by providing guidance on how to navigate and work with HL7 work groups, product family and project teams. The program also provides basic team collaboration infrastructure tool and a range of other optional support service for Accelerator group based on their own needs, ranging from self-service guidelines, to contracted project and/or financial management, contracting with SMEs, and other project and infrastructure services. The HL7 FHIR ACCELERATORS The HL7 FHIR ACCELERATORS Membership & Training Resources Participate Newsroom Privacy & Terms Contact Us Health Level Seven International 455 E. Eisenhower PKWY STE 300 # 025 Ann Arbor, MI 48108 USA Phone: Privacy & Terms 2007-2024 Health Level Seven International