Belgian affiliate organisation to HL7. The mission of HL7 Belgium is entirely complementary with that of the parent HL7 organisation. Day-to-day management of HL7 Belgium is carried out by the sectoral standardisation operator Agoria ICT, that is also secretary of the international standardisation committee ISO/TC215 and CEN/TC251 Health Informatics. HL7 Belgium - a community devoted to standard interoperable Health IT News And Events Work roadmap The HL7 Belgium standardisation approach and roadmap Latest blog article One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the global acceptance, the modern approach to data exchange) is that the production of documentation is largely automated. There are several tool for that, but we have been working on the [] by on contact information write u or contact u on our social medium Please set the Contact Form component shortcode 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and HL7 Belgium - a community devoted to standard interoperable Health IT News And Events Work roadmap The HL7 Belgium standardisation approach and roadmap Latest blog article One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the global acceptance, the modern approach to data exchange) is that the production of documentation is largely automated. There are several tool for that, but we have been working on the [] by on contact information write u or contact u on our social medium Please set the Contact Form component shortcode 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and HL7 Belgium - a community devoted to standard interoperable Health IT News And Events Work roadmap The HL7 Belgium standardisation approach and roadmap Latest blog article One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the global acceptance, the modern approach to data exchange) is that the production of documentation is largely automated. There are several tool for that, but we have been working on the [] by on contact information write u or contact u on our social medium Please set the Contact Form component shortcode 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and Blog by One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the [] Search for: Recent Posts Recent Comments 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and Posts in FHIR by One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the [] Search for: Recent Posts Recent Comments 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and Publishing FHIR Implementation Guide Releases by on One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the global acceptance, the modern approach to data exchange) is that the production of documentation is largely automated. There are several tool for that, but we have been working on the FHIR Implementation Guide, which is a FHIR resource (of course, a computable, versioned artifact) and the remarkable . With the many thing we are doing to improve the publication of FHIR specification based on the ImplementationGuide, one thing wa long due: The abiliy for HL7 Belgium to officially publish the ImplementationGuides for the Community specifications. This ha been mentioned and expected by other institution other HL7 affiliates, IHE, etc. Thankfully the ImplementationGuide Publisher doe pretty much everything for us. After several attempt and thanks to the help of colleagues, we now have a set of instruction to make the IG Publisher prepare that publication. In addition, we also have a simple script that go through this procedure this is important because there are many variable and there are several thing that can go unnoticed. The procedure, in a nutshell, is: Prepare the folder structure one folder for publications, which contains the ImplementationGuides. Then each ImplementationGuide contains the folder that can be uploaded to the web server.Put the IG in that folder, run the publisher once to ensure that the content is OK for publicationFor every new release, run some more commands, add the package description. After this is done, the ImplementationGuide get the publication ready, with the necessary redirects, and the history page pointing at the different releases. The history page should also follow the institution template, and we already have a . This procedure may change will change to fix some issues, so the best thing is to use the instruction online ( and in the ) and especially use the script. PRs welcome, feedback much appreciated. Categories: Tags: No response yet Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required field are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Search for: Recent Posts Recent Comments 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and Posts in Jose Costa Teixeira by One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the [] Search for: Recent Posts Recent Comments 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and Posts in March 25, 2021 by One of the best thing about FHIR (besides the community, the manageability, the best practices, the [] Search for: Recent Posts Recent Comments 2024 HL7 Belgium. Created for free using WordPress and