HONEUR (Haematology Outcomes Network in Europe) is a Janssen-led initiative that is all about collaboration. Rather than creating a central data repository, the HONEUR federated data network enables partner to keep full control over their own data and the analysis. By bringing together data centre in Europe to scale up research on haematological malignancies, it aspires to create a future where patient with haematological malignancy across Europe have improved outcome because the power of Real-World Data and Real-World Evidence is being maximised. With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centre across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registry and other sources. The HONEUR portal is the core of the network. Its a secured environment that is only accessible to HONEUR partners. It offer different functionality to the partners. A data catalogue contains a description of various data set of data partner and how to engage with them. The study catalogue is the central place where a study request get initiated, and where the analysis script and eventually aggregated result will be stored (visible to study participant only). No patient-level data are stored on the HONEUR portal only aggregated result or a research question. CDM = OMOP Navigation Home Accelerated real-world data analysis and evidence sharing Federated network connectivity, data always stay local What is HONEUR? Treating patient with haematological malignancy ha progressed significantly in recent years, but extensive scientific research is still needed. Fortunately, there a huge untapped resource that can help: Real-World Data (RWD). At Janssen, we believe RWD ha the transformational potential to help u develop new tool and evidence-based therapies, and evolve from disease-centred to patient-centred model of healthcare. The more widespread acceptance and usage of RWD is one of the key driver in moving to a value-based healthcare system. Value-based healthcare seek better population health outcome and improved patient experiences, while promoting sustainability through increased efficiency and reduced health spending overall. Better collaboration is the key to unlocking RWDs potential uniting data partners, leveraging complementary strengths, and standardising data to a common data model. To this end, HONEUR (Haematological Outcomes Network in Europe) wa created to increase knowledge and understanding of haematological malignancy and improve outcome for patient across Europe. We invite you to join HONEUR and become part of a federated network that is collaborating to unlock the transformational potential of Real-World Data (RWD). Together, we can help create a faster, more efficient European research environment that better share and manages Real-World Evidence (RWE) generated from RWD. Our mission With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centre across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. Our approach We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registry and other sources. Welcome to HONEUR What HONEUR Is About PHDE/NPR/0918/00086 Data partner benefit Collaboration with full data control data always stay local Strengthened ability to perform high quality research a part of a federated network Compensation of effort based on Fair Market Value Increased data value via expanded authorship in publication and the possibility of sponsored study Access to more than 55,000 data set of patient with MM/CLL/AML Participation in a network that is pioneering data management and analysis Improved understanding of how patient are treated in the real world ITEM CODE: RF-251517 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARY 2023 HONEUR Network Data Partners Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Home Accelerated real-world data analysis and evidence sharing Federated network connectivity, data always stay local What is HONEUR? Treating patient with haematological malignancy ha progressed significantly in recent years, but extensive scientific research is still needed. Fortunately, there a huge untapped resource that can help: Real-World Data (RWD). At Janssen, we believe RWD ha the transformational potential to help u develop new tool and evidence-based therapies, and evolve from disease-centred to patient-centred model of healthcare. The more widespread acceptance and usage of RWD is one of the key driver in moving to a value-based healthcare system. Value-based healthcare seek better population health outcome and improved patient experiences, while promoting sustainability through increased efficiency and reduced health spending overall. Better collaboration is the key to unlocking RWDs potential uniting data partners, leveraging complementary strengths, and standardising data to a common data model. To this end, HONEUR (Haematological Outcomes Network in Europe) wa created to increase knowledge and understanding of haematological malignancy and improve outcome for patient across Europe. We invite you to join HONEUR and become part of a federated network that is collaborating to unlock the transformational potential of Real-World Data (RWD). Together, we can help create a faster, more efficient European research environment that better share and manages Real-World Evidence (RWE) generated from RWD. Our mission With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centre across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. Our approach We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registry and other sources. Welcome to HONEUR What HONEUR Is About PHDE/NPR/0918/00086 Data partner benefit Collaboration with full data control data always stay local Strengthened ability to perform high quality research a part of a federated network Compensation of effort based on Fair Market Value Increased data value via expanded authorship in publication and the possibility of sponsored study Access to more than 55,000 data set of patient with MM/CLL/AML Participation in a network that is pioneering data management and analysis Improved understanding of how patient are treated in the real world ITEM CODE: RF-251517 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARY 2023 HONEUR Network Data Partners Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Navigation Welcome Enter Username & Password Username: Password: CAPSLOCK key is turned on! For security reasons, please and exit your web browser when you are done accessing service that require authentication! WARNING NOTICE: This system is restricted solely to Johnson & Johnson user for authorized business only. Any actual or attempted unauthorized access, use or modification of this system is strictly prohibited by Johnson & Johnson. Unauthorized user are subject to Johnson & Johnson disciplinary proceeding and/or criminal and civil penalty under state, federal or other applicable domestic and foreign laws. The use of this system may be monitored and recorded for administrative and security reasons. If such monitoring and/or recording reveal possible evidence of criminal activity, Johnson & Johnson may provide the evidence of such monitoring to law enforcement officials. This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: March, 2021 Navigation Home Accelerated real-world data analysis and evidence sharing Federated network connectivity, data always stay local What is HONEUR? Treating patient with haematological malignancy ha progressed significantly in recent years, but extensive scientific research is still needed. Fortunately, there a huge untapped resource that can help: Real-World Data (RWD). At Janssen, we believe RWD ha the transformational potential to help u develop new tool and evidence-based therapies, and evolve from disease-centred to patient-centred model of healthcare. The more widespread acceptance and usage of RWD is one of the key driver in moving to a value-based healthcare system. Value-based healthcare seek better population health outcome and improved patient experiences, while promoting sustainability through increased efficiency and reduced health spending overall. Better collaboration is the key to unlocking RWDs potential uniting data partners, leveraging complementary strengths, and standardising data to a common data model. To this end, HONEUR (Haematological Outcomes Network in Europe) wa created to increase knowledge and understanding of haematological malignancy and improve outcome for patient across Europe. We invite you to join HONEUR and become part of a federated network that is collaborating to unlock the transformational potential of Real-World Data (RWD). Together, we can help create a faster, more efficient European research environment that better share and manages Real-World Evidence (RWE) generated from RWD. Our mission With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centre across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. Our approach We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registry and other sources. Welcome to HONEUR What HONEUR Is About PHDE/NPR/0918/00086 Data partner benefit Collaboration with full data control data always stay local Strengthened ability to perform high quality research a part of a federated network Compensation of effort based on Fair Market Value Increased data value via expanded authorship in publication and the possibility of sponsored study Access to more than 55,000 data set of patient with MM/CLL/AML Participation in a network that is pioneering data management and analysis Improved understanding of how patient are treated in the real world ITEM CODE: RF-251517 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARY 2023 HONEUR Network Data Partners Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Data partner HONEUR data partner Czech Republic - CLLEAR The Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patient registry (CLLEAR) is a registry hosted by the Czech CLL Study Group and the Czech Leukemia Study group and collect deep insight of medical record of CLL patient from 10 Czech Republic hospital and centers. Website: Czech Republic - RMG The Registry of Monoclonal Gammopathies (RMG), established by the Czech Myeloma Study Group (CMG), is a registry designed for the collection of clinical data from 23 CZ and SK Hematology center concerning diagnosis, treatment, treatment result and survival of patient with MGUS, MM, and SMM. Website: France - CHU Dijon Bourgogne The University Hospital Center of Dijon Bourgogne is a large center that offer public emergency service, diagnosis, care and prevention. CHU Dijon is well-establihed in the provision of first-class and comprehensive hematological malignancy treatment, and is the only center in the Burgundy region that ha the capability to provide heavy therapy treatment for certain blood diseases. Website: France - CHU Lille With nearly 16,000 professional and being made up of 13 establishments, the Lille University Hospital Center is one of the largest public health establishment in Northern Europe. CHU Lille is committed to scientific excellence in the service of innovation, progress and the transformation of practice and organizations, and focus on various research areas, including cancer research. Website: France - CHU Montpellier CHU Montpellier is a French University hospital center focused on care, teaching and research, but also prevention, health education and the fight against social exclusion. It is organized around 13 university hospital center grouping all medical and surgical specialty and spread over several geographical site north-east of Montpellier. Website: France - CHU de Nice The hematology department of CHU Nice specializes in the management of blood and lymph node disorders, including cancers. It develops recourse activity such a allogeneic and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, intensive chemotherapy, and clinical research, allowing for access to innovative treatments. France - Myelomatoul/Oncopole Toulouse The IUCT Oncopole comprises the Institut Claudius Regaud, a cancer center, and several team from Toulouse University Hospital Center. The two institution offer the expertise of 1500 professional specialized in oncology on the same site. The site specializes in a variety of rare and complex diseases, including haematological cancers, and ha a large medical database on various blood cancers. Website: Germany - iOMEDICO iOMEDICO is a German clinical research institute and clinical research organization that work with a large, intersectoral network of hospital and private clinic in Germany, and specializes in interventional and real-world data study in oncology and hematology. HONEUR work with two of iOMEDICO's registry platform that predominantly collect longitudinal data on myeloma and lymphoma patients. Website: Germany - MV-Zentrum fr Onkologie und Hmatologie Since it wa founded in 1997, Oncology at Sachsenring ha built up a close network of cooperation partner and it own study center. The oncologist at the MVZ Study Center Cologne are committed to holistic treatment of a malignant disease and are therefore the primary contact for all aspect of cancer. In the spirit of "holistic care", Oncology Cologne have therefore developed some additional offers, which include social counseling, psychosocial care, nutritional therapy, sport offer and others. Furthermore, oncology Cologne work very closely in various tumor conference with several hospital and all-important specialist disciplines. Website: Germany - TriNetX Oncology GmbH TriNetX Oncology GmbH collaborates with renowned medical expert and pharmaceutical leader to generate fit-for-purpose database specification to match the desired study objective scoping for oncology and rare disease indications. By gathering complete, representative, and high-quality data, TherapyMonitor reflects the variety of cancer care across the continent. Website: Germany - Uniklinikum Wrzburg The University Hospital Wrzburg> is a pioneer in medical care, research and teaching. Their hematology department is very research-oriented, and focus on the development of new therapeutic approaches. With their Multiple Myeloma sstudy group that consists of more than 2500 patients, they are partiuclarly strong in Multiple Myeloma research. Website: Italy - ASST Ovest Milanese The Hospital Healthcare company Ovest Milanese is a public organization that includes 4 entity in an area near Milan. Its Division of Hematology, placed in the new Hospital Legnano can count on a group of expert with a well-proven track record in a variety of onco-haematological disease, such a myeloma, lymphomas, and leukemia. It collaborates within national and international network and actively participates in research project and trial mainly in lymphoma and myelomas. Italy - Fondazione IRCCS Ca Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico The Hematology department at Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico of Milan specialises in the clinical management of benign and malignant hematology disorders. Within the largest public research hospital in Italy, the hematology department performs basic, translational and clinical research in myeloma, myeloid, and lymphoid malignancies, with a special focus on disease pathogenesis and genomic predictor of clinical outcomes. Italy - IRST of Meldola The Romagnolo Institute for the Study of Tumors "Dino Amadori" - IRST is a center of excellence entirely dedicated to treatment, research and training in the oncology field. Since it inauguration in 2007, IRST IRCCS ha broken new ground in multiple area of cancer research, with clinical, research programs, and high-level training and education initiatives. The center ha a strong interest in hematological research and collect medical patient record on a variety of blood cancers. Website: Kazakhstan - The Kazakh Institute of Oncology and Radiology The Kazakh Research Institute of Oncology & Radiology is responsible for all cancer control program in Kazakhstan. The institute provides a multidisciplinary approach to cancer treatment, education and training. They play a big role in cancer policy in Kazakhstan. Website: Spain - Fundaci Institut Hospital Del Mar dInvestigacions Mdiques (IMIM) IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute) is a research-focused institute that consists of 60 research groups, of which two are specifically focused on haematological (lymphoid and myeloid) research. They collect patient data on a variety of haematological malignancies, with a predominant focus on lymphomas. The hospital is one of the biggest site in Spain in eHealth research, which is also actively contributing to other project such a EHDEN and HARMONY. Website: Spain - Instituto de Investigacin Sanitaria (IIS) La Fe Health Research Institute Hospital La Fe is a public sector initiative made up of 6 entity within the Valencia region. Its Hematology Research Group ha a well-proven track record, collaborates with a variety of national and international partner on especially leukemia research projects. Website: Spain - Fundacin Instituto de Investigacin Sanitaria (IIS) Aragn Lozano Blesa University Hospital is part of IIS Aragn, a Health Research Institute for the Health Department of the Aragn regional Government. The Lozano Blesa Hematology Study Group focus on hematoncology malignancy and iomunotherapy in translational lymphoma research. Website: Spain - Hospital Universitario 12 Octubre The Research Institute Hospital 12 de Octubre is conceived a a functional structure of multidisciplinary and translational biomedical research focused on basic, clinical, epidemiological and health service research. Website: Israel - Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Centre Ichilov Hospital Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center's division of hematology provides expert care for patient with a variety of blood disorders, including malignant hematological disease such a acute and chronic leukemias, MDS (myelodysplastic syndromes), multiple myeloma, and Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and is affiliated with the Sackler Faculty of Medicine of the Tel Aviv University for leading-edge scientific and clinical research and ongoing medical education. Website: UK - Cancer Centre London Cancer Centre London (CCL) is at the forefront of innovative cancer care and a recognised Centre of Excellence. The centre ha a well-established Haemato-Oncology Unit where they treat a wide range of haematological disorders, including leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma. Website: UK - University Hospitals Leicester NHS University Hospitals Leicester NHS is one of the biggest and busiest NHS Trusts in the country, and work with many different organisation throughout the world to push the boundary of research. They deliver a wide range of Cancer and Haematology National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) study and are part of the Myeloma UK Clinical Trials Network. Website: UK - Cardiff and Vale University Health Board Cardiff and Vale University Health Board includes the University Hospital of Wales and ha strong link to Cardiff University. UHW is a large 900 bed teaching hospital in the capital city of Wales which provides haematological cancer care for the surrounding population. UHW ha a strong track record in clinical trial and routine NHS care. Website: ITEM CODE: RF-243987 | DATE OF PREPARATION: NOVEMBER 2022 ITEM CODE: RF-402053 | DATE OF PREPARATION: 12 FEBRUARY 2024 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation HONEURs cross-functional team HONEURs cross-functional team EXECUTIVE SPONSOR Martin Price PhD Outcomes Research, Vice President Health Economics Outcomes Research and Reimbursement EMEA Executive Sponsor STEERING COMMITTEE Edmond Chan MD(Res), MSc, MBChB Senior Director, EMEA Therapeutic Area Lead, Hemato Oncology Kaat Van de Keer MSc Law, LL.M Legal Director Joris Diels MSc Economics, Head Market Access Analysis and Health Economics Modelling Tomislav Kamenski PhD Biochemistry, Senior Director, EMEA Therapy Area Market Access Leader, Hematology HONEUR CORE TEAM Kristina Bardenheuer MSc Epidemiology, Project Lead HONEUR Michel Van Speybroeck MSc, Bioengineering, Director Data Science Wout Vekemans MSc Computer Science, Product Manager HONEUR Cristian Benza MD, Medical Affairs Director Solenn Salaun MSc Management Sciences, IT Project Manager MEDICAL AFFAIRS TEAM Traugott Gruppe MD, PhD, Regional Medical Affairs Director Haemato-Oncology EMEA Mark Graham PhD Cardiology, EMEA Medical Director, early portfolio Claire Albrecht MSc Business Management, Medical Affairs Director EMEA MM Christoph Tapprich MD, Haematologist, Medical Affairs Director EMEA CLL, NHL SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS Dries Van Briel MSc Law, LL.M, Legal Counsel Nolen Perualila PhD Statistics, HTA Analyitcs and Head Methods Andrada Tatar MD, PhD, Health Care, Compliance Senior Manager Yulia Ramodina MSc Law, Privacy, Compliance Manager EMEA ITEM CODE: RF-251515 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARI 2023 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation What data partner are saying What data partner are saying "Building on our tradition of high quality standard and excellence in research, 12 de Octubre University Hospital is committed to collaborating in initiative that offer the best chance for success. Were very confident that becoming a member of the HONEUR network will enable u to maximise the value of our Multiple Myeloma data so that we may ultimately improve healthcare for our patients." Dr. Agustn Gmez de la Cmara, Head of Clinical and Epidemiological Research, Health Research Institute of 12 de Octubre University Hospital, Madrid, Spain "My colleague and I at the Leicester Royal Infirmary are passionate about the development and use of database record in haematological disorders, a they provide a source of invaluable information for benchmarking, education and research purposes. Joining HONEUR brings u a big step closer to generating Real-World Data that ultimately ha a meaningful impact on patients." Dr. Mamta Garg, Consultant Haematologist, MD, FRCP, FRCPath, Leicester Royal Infirmary, United Kingdom "Our registry currently includes different haematological malignancy and we are very much looking forward to collaborating with Janssen and other HONEUR members, so that we can make significant inroad in improving treatment for patient with these rare blood diseases." Prof. MUDr. Roman Hjek, CSc. (Haematology), The Registry of Monoclonal Gammopathies (RMG), Czech Republic "iOMEDICO ha been a pioneer in the field of Real-World Data and our vision is to improve oncology by refining RWD methodology and analysis standards. HONEUR offer the unique chance to collaborate with other European researcher while maintaining integrity, security and independence of the databases." Dr. Norbert Marschner, Medical Oncologist, CEO of iOMEDICO "Ever since it foundation, O.I.s) ha been partnering with Janssen in the strive to establish real-world evidence a a crucial source in cancer research. We are proud to support the HONEUR research network with data from a very large and granular Multiple Myeloma Database in Europe. Joining force with leading hematologists, Janssens team of expert and further research organizations, we are excited to generate significant, current and collaborative insight contributing to the development of multiple myeloma treatments." Lenka Kellermann, Founder and Owner, OncologyInformationService & CancerDataNet, Freiburg, Germany ITEM CODE: CP-241082 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JUNE 2021 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation HONEUR material HONEUR material HONEUR Brochure ITEM CODE: CP-164559 Why Join HONEUR? ITEM CODE: CP-171285 Learn six way how you can SAM: 5833 Learn how can help you optimise the clinical management of your patients. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation How it work How it work As shown below, each of the data partner in this example ha the application in place to interrogate their own data or to execute an analysis script that is developed centrally by other HONEUR data partners. Individual site are not physically connected to a central platform or to each other, but aggregated result can be shared securely through the HONEUR portal (shown below). Data partner can choose to initiate their own question and participate (or not) in those posed by other data partners. All data are harmonised to the OMOP common data model. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Core principle Core principle HONEUR optimises how Real-World Data are analysed to speed-up the generation of Real-World Evidence HONEUR data partner share real-world insight that can contribute to improved patient outcome HONEUR ensures data partner keep full control of their data at all time HONEUR respect individual right and follows all local process and regulations, e.g., FAIR and GDPR HONEUR increase the value of your data by enabling it re-use across a wide range of research study and encourages publishing result ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Research question Research question Data partner can choose to initiate their own question and participate (or not) in those posed by other data partners. These are just a few examples; a HONEUR evolves, answer to other question will follow. What is the overall survival of patient with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma who received at least three prior line of therapy including proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory IMiD drugs, and CD38 monoclonal antibody treatment? What is the time to next treatment, disease progression and long-term overall survival over a 5-year period in the real world vs. predicted overall survival data from clinical trials? What are the treatment sequence in different country and associated outcomes, e.g. overall survival? Multiple Myeloma Cells ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation How to become an HONEUR data partner How to become an HONEUR data partner HONEURs goal is to develop a network with diverse geographic coverage across Europe.Any registry, hospital, physician association or scientific institute with patient-level data for the following disease can become a data partner: Multiple Myeloma (MM) Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML) Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) Follicular Lymphoma (FL) Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL) AL-Amyloidosis You can benefit from network participation if you fulfil the following prerequisites: Patient-level data comprehensive, individual patient history Disease characteristic confirmed diagnosis and date of diagnosis Patient baseline characteristic year of birth and gender Medications line of treatment with start-stop date Outcomes time to next treatment, last follow-up, death What are the step to join HONEUR? 1 2 Meeting (phone or in person) for Q&A and to provide more information 3 Data profiling to determine structure (no access to patient data) 4 Signing of Access Agreement 5 Data transformation*, use of HONEUR technical functionality 6 Access to HONEUR portal; ready to participate/initiate research question Timelines The onboarding process can vary, but from initial data profiling (a process that evaluates your data structure, not patient-level data) to signing the Access Agreement can take between 3-6 months. Subsequently, data transformation may take 3-4 months, after which you have access to the HONEUR portal and can initiate/participate in research questions. * In a joint effort between the data partner and Janssen, data is transformed to the OMOP common data model, which wa developed by the scientific community of . ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Our investment in real world data Our investment in real world data Our compensation is based on Fair Market Value (FMV) and consists of three pillars: SET UP REMUNERATION When you join the network, we compensate your IT-based efforts. Remuneration is dependent on the data model/organisational complexity and IT effort needed to implement HONEUR at your site. FEASIBILITY QUERIES We grant an annual remuneration to participate in feasibility queries. TAKING PART IN RESEARCH QUESTIONS Remuneration is dependent on the data volume, quality and the complexity of the analysis and will be calculated before start of the study. Blast cell from Acute Myeloid Leukemia ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Join the network Join the network Any registry, hospital, physician association or scientific institute with a data set on patient with that fulfills certain can become a data partner. to learn more and become a data partner. We will enroll you a a data partner in accordance with our and comply with any and all legal obligations. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Contact Contact For general information: Kristina Bardenheuer, Project Lead T: For technical information: Michel Van Speybroeck, Data Science Director T: Request Access To request the creation or deactivation of user accounts, please fill in the following PDF. Sign the PDF and send it to ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation News News 28/12/2023 We are delighted to introduce to you our 24th HONEUR data partner: ASST Ovest Milanese. The Hospital Healthcare company Ovest Milanese is a public organization which include 4 entity in an area near ... 18/12/2023 We have shared our 2023 Winter HONEUR Newsletter. This edition features: 23 HONEUR data partners, with CHU Nice and Policlinico di Milano a our newest members:... 02/11/2023 In collaboration with our HONEUR Data partner Cancer Centre London, we published an abstract in Blood, entitled An Honeur Framework for Generating Computer Understandable Cohort Definitions from Clinical Trial Protoco... 20/09/2023 Thrilled to share the news of our upcoming fourth HONEUR Forum meeting in the picturesque city of Rome, Italy, on March 20-21, 2024! Calling upon our esteemed HONEUR Data Partners and potential collaborator to be part... 24/07/2023 Our 2023 HONEUR Summer Newsletter ha been sent out. In this edition you can find an update on our ongoing and planned evidence-generation projects, a recap of our recent HONEUR Forum meeting in Amsterdam, and other ex... ITEM CODE: RF-247386 | DATE OF PREPARATION: NOVEMBER 2022 ITEM CODE: RF-272618 | DATE OF PREPARATION: 28 JUNE 2023 ITEM CODE: RF-402052 | DATE OF PREPARATION: 12 FEBRUARY 2024 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation FAQ FAQs What is HONEUR? HONEUR (Haematology Outcomes Network in Europe) is a Janssen-led initiative that is all about collaboration. Rather than creating a central data repository, the HONEUR federated data network enables partner to keep full control over their own data and the analysis. By bringing together data centre in Europe to scale up research on haematological malignancies, it aspires to create a future where patient with haematological malignancy across Europe have improved outcome because the power of Real-World Data and Real-World Evidence is being maximised. What is the scope of HONEUR? The HONEUR platform is designed to connect network of data source across Europe, which have data on patient with haematological malignancies. Data always stay protected and network partner keep control of their data at all times. Data partner are able to use new tool to securely analyse large volume of data on a European scale. This will facilitate the generation of new Real-World Evidence about haematological malignancies, e.g., their possibletrajectories, biological marker of the cancer type and their severity, and the effectiveness of different treatments. What are Real-World Data (RWD) and Real-World Evidence (RWE)? Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) definitions: Real-World Data (RWD) is an umbrella term for data regarding the effect of health intervention (e.g., benefit, risk, and resource use) that are not collected in the context of conventional randomised clinical trial (RCTs). RWD can be obtained from many source including patient registries, electronic medical records, and observational studies. Real-World Evidence (RWE) is the evidence derived from the analysis and/or synthesis of RWD. Why is RWD important? RWD is very different from clinical trial data a it offer a broader diversity of patient who could develop haematological malignancies. It reflects the wide variation in how disease like cancer are diagnosed and treated, and usually span the full disease history from before diagnosis to long-term survival or death. It will include information about how other condition are being treated in parallel to the cancer, and how these treatment may interact. In summary, RWD complement the result from randomised clinical trial and expands knowledge on treatment outcome in the real world. It deepens understanding of disease epidemiology and the impact on patient and public health. It also provides insight for improved patient care and benefit future research. What type of question can be answered with HONEUR? The power of HONEUR lie in enabling data analysis on multiple data set with methodological and statistical possibilities. By analysing data from multiple partners, common research question on overall survival, time to next treatment, or treatment sequencing can be answered. These are only a few example - a HONEUR evolves, answer to other question will follow. What information is stored on the HONEUR data portal? The HONEUR portal is the core of the network. Its a secured environment that is only accessible to HONEUR partners. It offer different functionality to the partners. A data catalogue contains a description of various data set of data partner and how to engage with them. The study catalogue is the central place where a study request get initiated, and where the analysis script and eventually aggregated result will be stored (visible to study participant only). No patient-level data are stored on the HONEUR portal only aggregated result or a research question. How are data secured and patient privacy protected? The HONEUR network is based on the principle that data partner have local governance and keep control of their own data at all times. The original source data are transformed at the data partner site to the OMOPcommon data model, which always stay local. If a data partner agrees to participate in an analysis, this would be carried out locally and the result would be posted on the central HONEUR portal. In the base case, all result are being aggregated. In the seldom-seen case that a research question can only be answered with patient-level data (and upon explicit agreement), pseudonymised data can be shared. All data are always protected by encryption. What remuneration will be covered by Janssen? Janssen remunerates at Fair Market Valuefor effort arising from the implementation of HONEUR during the set-up phase a well a for research question being carried out. Additionally, Janssen pay a yearly fee for performed feasibility queries. Didnt find the answer to your question here? Feel free to We will enroll you a a data partner in accordance with our and comply with any and all legal obligations. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Privacy policy Privacy policy Janssen Phamaceutica N.V. care about your privacy and want you to be familiar with how we collect, use, and disclose information. This Privacy Policy describes our practice in connection with information that we or our service provider collect through the website or application (hereinafter the Service) operated and controlled by u from which you are accessing this Privacy Policy. By providing personal information to u or by using the Service, you acknowledge that you have read and understand this Privacy Policy. USE BY MINORS The Service is not directed to individual under the age of18, and we request that these individual not provide personal information through the Service. If your child ha submitted Personal Information and you would like to request that such Personal Information be removed, please contact u a explained below under Contacting Us. INFORMATION COLLECTION We may ask you to submit personal information in order for you to benefit from certain feature (such a newsletter subscriptions, tips/pointers, or order processing) or to participate in a particular activity (such a sweepstakes or other promotions). You will be informed what information is required and what information is optional. We may combine the information you submit with other information we have collected from you, whether on or offline, including, for example, your purchase history. We may also combine it with information we receive about you from other Johnson & Johnson affiliate If you submit any personal information relating to another individual to us, you represent that you have the authority to do so and to permit u to use the information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. SENSITIVE INFORMATION Unless we specifically request or invite it, we ask that you not send us, and you not disclose, any sensitive personal information (e.g., Social Security numbers, information related to racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs, health or medical conditions, sex life or sexual orientation, criminal background, or trade union membership, or biometric or genetic data) on or through the Service or otherwise to us. AUTOMATIC INFORMATION COLLECTION AND USE We and our service provider may collect certain information automatically a you navigate around the Service. Please read the for detailed information about the cooky and other tracking technology used on the Service. Except where allowed by applicable law, we place cooky after having received your consent through the cookie banner or preference center. The Cookie Policy includes information on how you may disable these technologies. We and our service provider may also automatically collect and use information in the following ways: Through your browser: Certain information is collected by most browsers, such a your Media Access Control (MAC) address, computer type (Windows or Mac), screen resolution, operating system name and version, and Internet browser type and version. We may collect similar information, such a your device type and identifier, if you access the Service through a mobile device. We use this information to ensure that the Service function properly. IP address: Your IP address is a number that is automatically assigned to your computer by your Internet Service Provider. An IP address is identified and logged automatically in our server log file whenever a user visit the Service, along with the time of the visit and the page visited. Collecting IP address is standard practice and is done automatically by many online services. We use IP address for purpose such a calculating Service usage levels, diagnosing server problems, and administering the Service. We may also derive your approximate location from your IP address. Device Information: We may collect information about your mobile device, such a a unique device identifier, to understand how you use the Service. HOW WE USE AND DISCLOSE INFORMATION We use and disclose information you provide to u a described to you at the point of collection. Please see the section entitled Choices and Access, below, to learn how you may opt out of certain of our us and disclosures. Where required by applicable law, we will obtain your consent to our use of your personal information at the point of information collection. We may also use information from or about you a necessary to perform a contract, to comply with a legal obligation (for example, due to our pharmacovigilance obligations), or for our legitimate business interests. We may also rely on other legal bases, specifically for: Providing the functionality of the Service and fulfilling your requests. to provide the functionality of the Service to you and providing you with related customer service; to respond to your inquiry and fulfill your requests, such a to send you document you request or email alerts; to send you important information regarding our relationship with you or regarding the Service, change to our terms, conditions, and policy and/or other administrative information. We will engage in these activity to manage our contractual relationship with you and/or to comply with a legal obligation. Accomplishing our business purposes. for data analysis, for example, to improve the efficiency of the Service; for audits, to verify that our internal process function a intended and are compliant with legal, regulatory, or contractual requirements; for fraud and security monitoring purposes, for example, to detect and prevent cyberattacks or attempt to commit identity theft; for developing new product and services; for enhancing, improving or modifying our website or product and services; for identifying Service usage trends, for example, understanding which part of our Service are of most interest to users; and for determining the effectiveness of our promotional campaigns, so that we can adapt our campaign to the need and interest of our users. We will engage in these activity to manage our contractual relationship with you, to comply with a legal obligation, and/or because we have a legitimate interest. Analysis of Personal Information to provide personalized services. to better understand you, so that we can personalize our interaction with you and provide you with information and/or offer tailored to your interests; to better understand your preference so that we can deliver content via the Service that we believe will be relevant and interesting to you. We will provide personalized service either with your consent or because we have a legitimate interest. We also disclose information collected through the Service: to our affiliate for the purpose described in this Privacy Policy. A list of our affiliate is available at (click on the link for Form 10K, Exhibit 21, under SEC Filings). Janssen Pharamceutica N.V. is the party responsible for the management of the jointlyused Personal Information; to our third party partner with whom we offer a cobranded or comarketed promotion; to our third party service provider who provide service such a website hosting and moderating, mobile application hosting, data analysis, payment processing, order fulfillment, infrastructure provision, IT services, customer service, email and direct mail delivery services, auditing, and other services, in order to enable them to provide services; and a permitted by applicable law, to a third party in the event of any reorganization, merger, sale, joint venture, assignment, transfer, or other disposition of all or any portion of our business, assets, or stock (including in connection with any bankruptcy or similar proceedings). In addition, we may use and disclose your information a we believe to be necessary or appropriate: (a) to comply with legal process or applicable law, which may include law outside your country of residence; (b) a permitted by applicable law to respond to request from public and government authorities, which may include authority outside your country of residence; (c) to enforce our term and conditions; and (d) to protect our rights, privacy, safety, or property, and/or that of our affiliates, you, or others. We may also use and disclose your information in other way after obtaining your consent to do so. We may use and disclose information we collect automatically a described above, under Automatic Information Collection and Use. In addition, where allowed by applicable law, we may use and disclose information that is not in personally identifiable form for any purpose. If we combine information that is not in personally identifiable form with information that is identifiable (such a combining your name with your geographical location), we will treat the combined information a personal information a long a it is combined. CHOICES AND ACCESS Your choice regarding our use and disclosure of your personal information We give you choice regarding our use and disclosure of your personal information for marketing purposes. You may opt out from: Receiving marketing communication from us: If you no longer want to receive marketing communication from u on a goingforward basis, you may opt out of receiving them by contacting u via . In your request to us, please provide your name, identify the form(s) of marketing communication that you no longer wish to receive, and include the address(es) to which it/they are sent. For example, if you no longer wish to receive marketing email or direct mail from us, tell u that, and provide your name and email or postal address.You may also opt out of receiving marketing communication from u by visiting the Service to update your online profile. In addition, you may opt out of receiving marketing email from u by following the unsubscribe instruction provided in any such message. Receiving reminder from us: If you no longer want to receive medical reminder from u on a goingforward basis, you may opt out of receiving them by contacting u via. In your response to us, please provide your name and the email address or phone number at which you receive reminder from us. Our sharing of your personal information with affiliate and thirdparty partners: If you previously opted-in to receiving marketing communication from our affiliate or third party partners, you may opt out of our sharing of your personal information with those party for their direct marketing purpose on a goingforward basis by contacting u via.In your communication to us, please state that we should no longer share your personal information with our affiliate and/or thirdparty partner for their marketing purposes, and include your name and email address. We will seek to comply with your request(s) a soon a reasonably practicable. Please note that if you opt out a described above, we will not be able to remove your personal information from the database of our affiliate with which we have already shared your information (i.e., a of the date that we implement your optout request). However, we will make reasonable effort to inform our affiliate of your request. Please also note that if you opt out of receiving marketingrelated message from us, we may still send you important transactional and administrative messages, from which you cannot opt out. How you can access, change, or delete your personal information If you would like to review, correct, update, restrict, or delete your personal information, or if you would like to request an electronic copy of your personal information for purpose of transmitting it to another company (to the extent these right are provided to you by applicable law), please contact u via. We will respond to your request a soon a reasonably practicable and no later than one month after receipt. If circumstance cause any delay in our response, you will be promptly notified and provided a date for our response. CROSSBORDER TRANSFER Your personal information may be stored and processed in any country where we have facility or service providers, and by using our Service or by providing consent to u (where required by law), your information may be transferred to country outside of your country of residence, including to the United States, which may provide for different data protection rule than in your country. Nonetheless, appropriate contractual and other measure are in place to protect personal information when it is transferred to our affiliate or third party in other countries. Some non-European Economic Area (EEA) country are recognized by the European Commission a providing an adequate level of data protection according to EEA standard (the full list of these country is available. For transfer from the EEA to country not considered adequate by the European Commission, we have ensured that adequate measure are in place, including by ensuring that the recipient is bound byEU Standard Contractual Clauses, to protect your Personal Information. You may obtain a copy of these measure by contacting our data protection officer in accordance with the Contacting Us section below. SECURITY We seek to use reasonable organizational, technical, and administrative measure designed to protect personal information under our control. Unfortunately, no data transmission over the Internet or data storage system can be guaranteed to be 100% secure. If you have reason to believe that your interaction with u is no longer secure (for example, if you feel that the security of any account you have with u ha been compromised), please immediately notify u in accordance with the Contacting Us section below. RETENTION PERIOD We will retain your personal information for a long a needed or permitted in light of the purpose(s) for which it wa obtained. The criterion used to determine our retention period include: (i) the length of time we have an ongoing relationship with you and provide the Service to you; (ii) whether there is a legal obligation to which we are subject; and (iii) whether retention is advisable in light of our legal position (such a in regard to applicable statute of limitations, litigation, or regulatory investigations). Please note, however, that this is not an exhaustive list of retention periods. Your personal information may be stored for a longer period using the criterion set forth in the first paragraph of this section, especially point (ii) and (iii). THIRD PARTY SITES AND SERVICES This Service may contain link to site of third parties. This Privacy Policy doe not address, and we are not responsible for, the privacy, information, or practice of any third parties, including any third party operating any site or online service (including, without limitation, any application) that is available through this Service or to which this Service contains a link. The availability of, or inclusion of a link to, any such site or property on the Service doe not imply endorsement of it by u or by our affiliates. CONTACTING US Janssen-Cilag Limited, located at 50-100 Holmers Farm Way, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 4EG,is the company responsible for collection, use, and disclosure of personal information under this Privacy Policy. If you have any question about this Privacy Policy, please contact u via, or please write to the following address: Janssen Pharmaceutica NV Att: Honeur Network Turnhoutseweg 30, 2340 Beerse Belgium You may also contact our data protection officer responsible for your country or region, if applicable, at. LODGING A COMPLAINT WITH A REGULATOR You may lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority competent for your country or region.Please click for contact information for such authorities. UPDATES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY We may change this Privacy Policy. Any change to this Privacy Policy will become effective when we post the revised Privacy Policy on the Service. Your use of the Service following these change mean that you accept the revised Privacy Policy. We recommend that you regularly review the Privacy Policy when you visit the Service. This policy wa last updated on04/09/2020. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Legal notice Legal notice All content of this Internet site is owned or controlled by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. and is protected by worldwide copyright laws. You may download content only for your personal use for non-commercial purpose but no modification or further reproduction of the content is permitted. The content may otherwise not be copied or used in any way. The owner of this site will use reasonable effort to include up-to-date and accurate information in this Internet site, but make no representations, warranties, or assurance a to the accuracy, currency, or completeness of the information provided. The owner of this site shall not be liable for any damage or injury resulting from your access to, or inability to access, this Internet site, or from your reliance on any information provided at this Internet site. This site is for internet audience in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Gibraltar, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and Yemen. This Internet site may provide link or reference to other site but the owner of this site have no responsibility for the content of such other site and shall not be liable for any damage or injury arising from that content. Any link to other site are provided a merely a convenience to the user of this Internet site. The trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade dress and product in this Internet site are protected in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. No use of any of these may be made without the prior, written authorization of the owner of this site, except to identify the product or service of the company. Any personally identifiable information in electronic communication to this Internet site is governed by this site's . The owner of this site shall be free to use or copy all other information in any such communications, including any ideas, inventions, concepts, technique or know-how disclosed therein, for any purposes. Such purpose may include disclosure to third party and/or developing, manufacturing and/or marketing good or services. The sender of any communication to this Internet site or otherwise to the owner of this site shall be responsible for the content and information contained therein, including it truthfulness and accuracy. This Internet site is provided a a service to it visitors. The site owner reserve the right to delete, modify or supplement the content of this site at any time for any reason without notification. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023 Navigation Cookie policy Cookie policy This Cookie Policy is designed to tell you about our practice regarding the collection of information through cooky and other tracking technology (like gifs, web beacons, etc.). The functionality for which we use these technology may include the following: Assisting you in navigation, Assisting in registering for our events, login, and your ability to provide feedback, Analyzing the use of our products, service or applications, Assisting with our promotional and marketing effort (including behavioral advertising), Offering content of third party (such a social medium content). Below is a detailed list of the cooky we use, with a description. We classify cooky in the following categories: Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies Except where allowed by applicable law, we place cooky after having received your consent through the cookie banner or preference center. You can change your cookie setting per cookie category (except for strictly necessary cooky that are required for the proper functioning of the site) at any time by clicking on the cookie setting button below: Cookie Settings Links to other website This site may contain link or reference to other websites. Please be aware that we do not control the cooky / tracking technology of other website and this Cookie Policy doe not apply to those websites. How to Contact Us If you have any questions, comments, or concern about this Cookie Policy or the information practice of this site, please use the contact information included in our Privacy Policy. Changes to This Cookie Policy If this Cookie Policy changes, the revised policy will be posted on this site. This Cookie Policy wa last updated may 2021. ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020 Hidden Follow on This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for it content. This site is intended for the use of our visitor in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023