The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is a European, not-for-profit organisation facilitating the optimal us of health data through a series of complementary activities. 2020 2024 i~HD Health data drive innovation NEWS i~HD join coalition in raising concern on draft European Health Data Space regulation SPOTLIGHT Interoperability in health care EVENT i~HD and UHasselt co-organising one-day symposium AC2023 i~HD Annual Conference 2023 Health data ha the potential to catalysesmarter health careandefficient research. We need to urgently ramp up our learning by creating and combininghigh-quality health data and advocating itstrustworthy uses. As a neutral, multi-stakeholder instituteThe European Institute for Innovation through Health Data strives tomaximise community value from health data. That is why we promote, develop and share good practice and tool and perform quality assessments. We must learn from health data now to enhance tomorrow world Why we champion better health data re-use: real world example Fighting COVID-19 with big data Finding the best type of blood pressure drug for the prevention of heart attack and stroke Better clinical decision based on high-quality health data Reimbursement for health apps with demonstrated data protection and interoperability Best colonoscopy practice for earlier diagnosis of bowel cancer Discover why and how health data is crucial to boost knowledge Our 6 core work stream QUALITY OF HEALTH DATA Health data is often not fit for crucial reuse purpose such a clinical research, decision making, value-based health care. We therefore catalyse stakeholder to scale up their data quality, by coaching, educating and equipping them with instruments, organising assessments, providing insight and strategy to benchmark and enhance their health data quality, and providing expert support in all phase of the research lifecycle. INFORMATION GOVERNANCE All organisations, and the public, need to trust the way in which health data is used, and by whom. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) ha heightened our awareness of this. We have translated our expertise in data protection for reuse purpose into code of practices, educational and certification programmes, which we provide to organisation and European projects. TRUSTWORTHY HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS With more and more health ICT system collecting and exchanging health data, we see a growing demand to demonstrate the trustworthiness of those systems. Using 1700 criterion and a standardised conformity assessment framework, we ass and certify the quality and governance of health ICT platforms. DATA INTEROPERABILITY STANDARDS Interoperability standard are vital to scaling up health data use, even more so given the rise of patient and citizen generated data. i~HD staff and expert have a long history of developing international health data interoperability standards, and their adoption into product and health ecosystems, connecting clinical information between silo to enable safer and more effective patient care, and big data research. QUALITY LABELS: CERTIFICATES & SEALS Organisations handling health data want to provide assurance they do so in trustworthy ways. i~HD programme offer audit for data, ICT systems, information governance and skills. As an independent institute, i~HD is best positioned to award quality label to stakeholder that showcase their engagement, quality and accountability. SCALING UP THE HEALTH ECOSYSTEM We know that everybody need to do more, and invest more, in health data through improved model of healthcare delivery, patient empowerment, and the development of innovative diagnostics and treatments. We help to stimulate this multi-stakeholder momentum to collect, curate, share and analyse data across care and research, for the benefit of all. Lets create trust Our approach Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscles. We convince We convince everyone about the societally-beneficial us of health data, about the need for high-quality data and how health data can be shared in acceptable ways. We connect We unite stakeholder within our neutral forum to share need and expertise, to co-create optimised solutions, to coach each player to assure their quality and increase their trustworthiness. We create We create innovative solution and programmes, practical guides, educational resource and quality label to support the creation, use, sharing and reuses of health data. We certify We ass thequality and trustworthy us of health data and we award successful organisation with seal and certificates. We catalyse We catalyse change and improvement through engaging multiple stakeholder in co-creating and then adopting health data usage solution and programmes, education, peer networks. Health data stakeholder Enriching knowledge and enhancing care through health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health data drive innovation NEWS i~HD join coalition in raising concern on draft European Health Data Space regulation SPOTLIGHT Interoperability in health care EVENT i~HD and UHasselt co-organising one-day symposium AC2023 i~HD Annual Conference 2023 Health data ha the potential to catalysesmarter health careandefficient research. We need to urgently ramp up our learning by creating and combininghigh-quality health data and advocating itstrustworthy uses. As a neutral, multi-stakeholder instituteThe European Institute for Innovation through Health Data strives tomaximise community value from health data. That is why we promote, develop and share good practice and tool and perform quality assessments. We must learn from health data now to enhance tomorrow world Why we champion better health data re-use: real world example Fighting COVID-19 with big data Finding the best type of blood pressure drug for the prevention of heart attack and stroke Better clinical decision based on high-quality health data Reimbursement for health apps with demonstrated data protection and interoperability Best colonoscopy practice for earlier diagnosis of bowel cancer Discover why and how health data is crucial to boost knowledge Our 6 core work stream QUALITY OF HEALTH DATA Health data is often not fit for crucial reuse purpose such a clinical research, decision making, value-based health care. We therefore catalyse stakeholder to scale up their data quality, by coaching, educating and equipping them with instruments, organising assessments, providing insight and strategy to benchmark and enhance their health data quality, and providing expert support in all phase of the research lifecycle. INFORMATION GOVERNANCE All organisations, and the public, need to trust the way in which health data is used, and by whom. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) ha heightened our awareness of this. We have translated our expertise in data protection for reuse purpose into code of practices, educational and certification programmes, which we provide to organisation and European projects. TRUSTWORTHY HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS With more and more health ICT system collecting and exchanging health data, we see a growing demand to demonstrate the trustworthiness of those systems. Using 1700 criterion and a standardised conformity assessment framework, we ass and certify the quality and governance of health ICT platforms. DATA INTEROPERABILITY STANDARDS Interoperability standard are vital to scaling up health data use, even more so given the rise of patient and citizen generated data. i~HD staff and expert have a long history of developing international health data interoperability standards, and their adoption into product and health ecosystems, connecting clinical information between silo to enable safer and more effective patient care, and big data research. QUALITY LABELS: CERTIFICATES & SEALS Organisations handling health data want to provide assurance they do so in trustworthy ways. i~HD programme offer audit for data, ICT systems, information governance and skills. As an independent institute, i~HD is best positioned to award quality label to stakeholder that showcase their engagement, quality and accountability. SCALING UP THE HEALTH ECOSYSTEM We know that everybody need to do more, and invest more, in health data through improved model of healthcare delivery, patient empowerment, and the development of innovative diagnostics and treatments. We help to stimulate this multi-stakeholder momentum to collect, curate, share and analyse data across care and research, for the benefit of all. Lets create trust Our approach Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscles. We convince We convince everyone about the societally-beneficial us of health data, about the need for high-quality data and how health data can be shared in acceptable ways. We connect We unite stakeholder within our neutral forum to share need and expertise, to co-create optimised solutions, to coach each player to assure their quality and increase their trustworthiness. We create We create innovative solution and programmes, practical guides, educational resource and quality label to support the creation, use, sharing and reuses of health data. We certify We ass thequality and trustworthy us of health data and we award successful organisation with seal and certificates. We catalyse We catalyse change and improvement through engaging multiple stakeholder in co-creating and then adopting health data usage solution and programmes, education, peer networks. Health data stakeholder Enriching knowledge and enhancing care through health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Mission and vision The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is a European, not-for-profit organisation facilitating the optimal us of health data through a series of complementary activities. OUR VISION We strive for a world in which multiple stakeholder collaborate in the trustworthy use of high-quality health data to continuously improve care and accelerate research. We are working to realise this ambitious challenge through leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation. That is why we have taken the form of a neutral membership-based organisation that strives to unite all health data stakeholder to share challenges, solution and to learn from each other. Our stakeholder include: OUR misSION We promote, develop and share good practices, tool and quality assessment to maximise community value from health data for innovation in health, care and research. In order to catalyse change and innovation within the health ecosystem: we work across these stakeholder through education and event to promote collaboration we play a strong role in national and international R&D project and European-wide collaborative initiative we develop practical method and solution we develop international quality certificates, seal and labels. Our experience in European project Via our founding members, i~HD can boast 0 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN EU PROJECTS 0 R&D PROJECTS WE HAVE BEEN A PARTNER IN 0 CURRENT EU PROJECTS 0 EXPERTS CONTRIBUTING TO OUR NETWORK 0 RECENT EVENTS WE HAVE RUN OR PARTNERED address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD How we are special We are a neutral, European, not-for-profit institute We focus on developing and promoting practical solution We have one focal point: the trustworthy us of high-quality health data We connect a network of world-leading expert in the health data ecosystem We are neutral, uniting the community of health data stakeholder We bring 30 year of learning and expertise in our certificate Our unique approach i~HD help you, a a player in the health data ecosystem, through our community and programme by flexing our five muscles. we CONVINCE We convince everyone about the societally-beneficial us of health data, about the need for high-quality data and how health data can be shared in acceptable ways. WE CONnect We unite stakeholder within our neutral forum to share need and expertise, to co-create optimised solutions, to coach each player to assure their quality and increase their trustworthiness. we create We create innovative solution and programmes, practical guides, educational resource and quality label to support your creation, use, sharing and re-uses of health data. we ceRTIFY We ass and can certify your effort by assuring your high-quality and trustworthy us of health data. we cATALYSE We catalyse change and improvement through engaging multiple stakeholder in co-creating and then adopting health data usage solution and programmes, education, peer networks. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Founding story i~HD wa created in 2016 a the sustainable result of the IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiatives) sponsored project Electronic Health Records for Clinical Research (EHR4CR) and a number of other European R&D project supported by the European Commission, at a time when the use of digital health data in e-health solution wa on a steep rise. This digital revolution emphasised the need to tackle the growing challenge related to the quality and interoperability of health data on a sustainable basis. Moreover, obstacle to using health data were not being addressed by other initiative so this wa another gap to fill. We consulted widely with other existing European institutes, and with many stakeholder group who endorsed our creation, helped u to formulate our mission, objective and our starting priority to help accelerate the benefit from making better use of health data, for all. In this way, via our founding member (EuroRec, RAMIT, empirica and TMF), i~HD brings together over 30 year of coordinating experience and participation in more than 100 European projects, a well a of service in the field of quality of data and EHRs. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Organisational structure General Assembly The General Assembly is the primary decision-making body of our European Institute. As the governance of i~HD is ultimately executed through it member organisations, expert representative of each of the nine stakeholder group represent their sector in the General Assembly. Executive Board The Executive Board is the body that set out the strategic policy of the organisation. Each of the stakeholder group is represented in the Executive Board by one member. Board of Directors The Board of Directors ensures that the strategic policy set out by the General Assembly and the Executive Board is translated in operational decision-making processes. It also guarantee the continuity of i~HDs daily management. i~HD office The i~HD office support the Board of Directors in the day-to-day running of the business and/or actively engage, lead or represent i~HD in a variety of projects. i~HD task force and committee Our task force and committeesbring together international expert who are actively engaged in the health data ecosystem. They act a sounding board to help understand the challenge that are surfacing and initiate the appropriate programme that meet the emerging needs. i~HD is an international not-for-profit organisation, VAT number:BE0628.646.310 address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD i-HD Team The i~HD team consists of highly-qualified, experienced and knowledgeableprofessionals. In addition, we closely connect to a large European network of expert and auditors, which turn u into a focussed, multi-expertise organisation, capable of assisting you with broad and in-depth health data knowledge. The variety of profile allows u to successfully support your small or large-scale health data projects. We bring state-of-the-art expertise and experience in: information governance including GDPR data quality quality and trustworthiness of ICT health innovation and system leading or being a partner in European R&D project international standard business modelling and the sustainability of digital health innovation multi-professional education, running course and delivering stakeholder-specific training Dipak Kalra President Geert Thienpont Managing Director Mats Sundgren Senior Industry Scientific Director Michel Antonise IT Consultant Pascal Coorevits Adviser Data & Systems Quality Jens Declerck Data Quality Manager Tom De Vree Systems Quality Programme Manager Veerle De Wispelaere Communications Manager Nathan Gatpandan eLearning Implementor and Communications Associate Julie James Senior Researcher Muna Khogali Innovation and Data Governance Expert Zoi Kolitsi Digital Health Policy and Strategy Lead Nathan Lea DPO & Information Governance Lead Christophe Maes Business Developer Charles McCay Researcher Gwen Poppe Office Manager Rahil Qamar Siddiqui Senior Researcher Peter Singleton Information Governance Expert Miriam Sturkenboom Senior Researcher Pieter Van Galen Patient Representative Robert Vander Stichele Senior Research Coordinator Francesco Vigna Researcher Tanja Vincken Educational Programme Manager Petra Wilson Information Governance Expert Network of European expert i~HD ha built a strong network of European domain expert from different backgrounds. They bring over a decade of expertise in electronic health records, health data quality, information governance, assessment methodology and certification programmes. Their insight contribute to the development of our programmes, so that we can indirectly connect their expertise to all stakeholder in the health data ecosystem. Educational team Our educational team consists of high-level professional with either educational backgrounds, such a university professors, or seasoned industry experts, or a combination of both. They share their insights, from the basic concept to the latest health data evolutions, and offer hands-on advice and coaching that will be of immediate practical use in your particular business situation.Find out more on the various teaching concept we offer through i~HD . Audit team i~HD can rely on a strong team of experienced European auditor with clinical, technical, academic and legal expertise. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Posts in News The European Insitute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is pleased to endorse, and to have been invited a a signatory to, the five key manifesto call on Digital Health just published by the European Association for e-Pharmacies (EAEP). The European CRO Federation (EUCROF) and the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) are pleased to announce the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) aimed at fostering collaboration and advancing initiative in the realm of data privacy, research, and healthcare innovation. The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is in unison with the 35-member strong coalition of health stakeholder organisation in highlighting some concern on the proposed European Health Data Space (EHDS) regulation On 25-26 September 2023, i~HD president Dipak Kalra will be giving a remote presentation to the Science Summit of the United Nations General Assembly. On 25-26 September 2023, i~HD president Dipak Kalra will be giving a remote presentation to the Science Summit of the United Nations General Assembly. On 25-26 September 2023, i~HD president Dipak Kalra will be giving a remote presentation to the Science Summit of the United Nations General Assembly. The Taxonomy will now be promoted by the Alliance and it network, including i~HD. We see it a a helpful mechanism to engage with others when we discus value based health care, which critically depends upon having high quality health data to quantify the value. The Taxonomy will now be promoted by the Alliance and it network, including i~HD. We see it a a helpful mechanism to engage with others when we discus value based health care, which critically depends upon having high quality health data to quantify the value. The Taxonomy will now be promoted by the Alliance and it network, including i~HD. We see it a a helpful mechanism to engage with others when we discus value based health care, which critically depends upon having high quality health data to quantify the value. Hundreds of participant went to Porto, Portugal on the 17th and 18th of November for the first-ever health data conference "Health Data Quality: a Dynamic Complexity". Posts navigation Page 1 Posts navigation address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Events Upcoming event WHEN: 23 April 2023 || WHERE: Corda Campus, Hasselt, Belgium || The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD), in collaboration with University of Hasselt, is organising a one-day symposium called "Big Data for Health & Care: The Arisal of Data Spaces". Past event "Digital Health and Data Week 2023" || WHEN: 28 November - 1 December 2023 || WHERE: Ghent, Belgium and online || The Digital Health and Data Week is a three-day event, the result of the collaboration between EHTEL, I~HD, and the UNICOM project consortium. "HealthTech Academy - Information Governance (of secondary use) of Health Data" || WHEN: 5 and 21 June 2023 || WHERE: Online and Brussels, Belgium || An expert-led workshop on navigating GDPR Compliance for HealthTech company when setting up the Information Governance "Trustworthy (re)use of health data endorsed by EHDS" || WHEN: 24 May 2023 || WHERE: Brussels, Belgium || i~HD is holding a workshop on health data (re)use in the 16th CPDP Conference "Putting Real World Evidence in Practice: A European Outlook on Real World Evidence in a Global Context" || WHEN: 16 March 2023 || WHERE: Jaarbeurs, Utrecht, The Netherlands || The GetReal Institute is pleased to announce it inaugural Annual Conference taking place on the 16th of March 2023 in Utrecht, the Netherlands. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Blogs i~HD team member share their view | A well-managed hospital data management plan is critical for the secondary use of health data, a it ensures the security and privacy of the data, a well a it accuracy and integrity. A high quality data management plan should include key factor that ensure the effective and secure use of healthcare data. | As the regulatory landscape around the governance of artificial intelligence, health data reuse and innovation continues to evolve, our research and innovation community find themselves navigating a transition from one set of known governance expectation to additional challenges. | MedTech company can offer benefit to multiple stakeholder within the healthcare ecosystem. Especially when it come to the use and reuse of health data. But to unlock all this potential, we need to ensure that the data is of high quality. | Today is a day that i~HD reflects on solemnly and with hope because Data Protection and Privacy are core to our founding principle and our work. We lead on several EU project for data protection and ethics, we have developed code of practice for the safe and effective use of data, we have co-run roundtable exploring the impact of novel innovation approach including Artificial Intelligence, and we have developed educational, outreach and quality assessment for Information Governance, ethic and their role in data driven innovation. | In any healthcare organization it is critical that the importance of data quality be properly explained. From management perspective to the healthcare providers, a sensible and understandable rationale must be given in order to obtain active participation in the data quality effort. | By Nathan Lea, i~HD DPO & Information Governance Lead For over three year handling of EU Citizens personal data ha been governed by the General Data Protection Regulation but myinvolvement with anticipating it impact predated this. There were point in 2017 where I sensed something special wa [] | The European Commission has, since the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), made effort towards the implementation of policy and regulation which are fit for the digital age while also ensuring trustworthy and safe use and reuse of data. | By Dipak Kalra, Presidenti~HD There is a growing momentum right across Europe to scale up our learning from routinely collected health data (real-world data RWD). The need for u to learn more from data is widely recognised by all stakeholders. We need to track health outcome [] address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Getting the most out of our health data i~HDs holistic approach to health data It is great to use health data, it would be greater to use great health data. i~HDs holistic view (*) for endeavoring to get the most out of health data is to focus on: Data Quality Information Governance Health ICT Systems After wide consultation and engagement of many stakeholder to fill a recognised gap, i~HD ha initiated six area of work, a presented below. Within these area European and multidisciplinary expert contribute, in line with the vision and mission of i~HD, throughout a diversity of initiative to get the most out of health data in Europe and beyond. Our core work stream QUALITY OF HEALTH DATA Health data is often not fit for crucial reuse purpose such a clinical research, decision making, value-based health care. We therefore catalyse stakeholder to scale up their data quality, by coaching, educating and equipping them with instruments, organising assessments, providing insight and strategy to benchmark and enhance their health data quality, and providing expert support in all phase of the research lifecycle. INFORMATION GOVERNANCE All organisations, and the public, need to trust the way in which health data is used, and by whom. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) ha heightened our awareness of this. We have translated our expertise in data protection for reuse purpose into code of practices, educational and certification programmes, which we provide to organisation and European projects. TRUSTWORTHY HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS With more and more health ICT system collecting and exchanging health data, we see a growing demand to demonstrate the trustworthiness of those systems. Using 1700 criterion and a standardised conformity assessment framework, we ass and certify the quality and governance of health ICT platforms. DATA INTEROPERABILITY STANDARDS Interoperability standard are vital to scaling up health data use, even more so given the rise of patient and citizen generated data. i~HD staff and expert have a long history of developing international health data interoperability standards, and their adoption into product and health ecosystems, connecting clinical information between silo to enable safer and more effective patient care, and big data research. QUALITY LABELS: CERTIFICATES & SEALS Organisations handling health data want to provide assurance they do so in trustworthy ways. i~HD programme offer audit for data, ICT systems, information governance and skills. As a neutral institute, i~HD is best positioned to award quality label to stakeholder that showcase their engagement, quality and accountability. SCALING UP THE HEALTH ECOSYSTEM We know that everybody need to do more, and invest more, in health data through improved model of healthcare delivery, patient empowerment, and the development of innovative diagnostics and treatments. We help to stimulate this multi-stakeholder momentum through conferences, workshops, think tanks, education and policy influence. (*) and data quality taskforce : i~HD & EMIF joint conference 2017 address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Why re-use health data Why use and re-use health data? Health data ha proved to be a crucial enabler in the development of innovative health, care and research solutions. This process wa facilitated by new digital way for collecting, storing, exchanging and analysing health data, meaning it can be re-used a second time, and more, not only by the person who collected the information but also by other clinicians, researcher and health authorities. Weneed to learn more from health data How do disease and treatment interact? Which treatment give the best results? How do we improve care pathways? Is this new medicine safe? Who should we screen for which diseases? How are new virus transmitted, treated? Health data interplay in several fields, not only providing for the safe continuity of care to the individual patient, but also creating insight for optimizing the effectiveness of health system and boosting research. Individual level health data Used for individual health status monitoring personalised medicine safe continuity of care by multi-disciplinary team of health and care professional Population level health data Re-used for quality and safety management improved care outcome health care provider performance management & planning public health surveillance & strategy Big health data Re-used for epidemiology disease understanding, prevention and treatment innovations: new medicine & technologies, AI development Sources of health data When hearing about health data, most people think of the medical information that is introduced in their health record during visit to their GP or hospital. But there is more. Health data registration is all around and rapidly growing: through remote monitoring device prescribed by health professional over personal tracking device such a fitness apps or dietary monitoring to major national health databases. Population registries/ clinical trial database Mobile health tracker Care pathway / decision support Environmental data Clinical application Bio sensor Genomic data Trustworthy use and re-use of high-quality health data The exponential growth of health data will allow for life-saving breakthrough if we manage to make good (re-)use of good data. Demonstrated health improvement through using data in one health care system (*) 0 decrease in heart disease death 0 decrease in HIV death 0 decrease in septicaemia death 0 decrease in pressure ulcer Reliable re-use of data Real-world health data is usually captured and structured for it primary objective of providing safe and personalised care to each individual patient. It need to be fit for the intended re-use purposes! Some critical requirement for optimal re-use involve the quality, the interoperability and the trustworthy handling of health data. Quality of health data Is the health data that is being analysed accurate? Is it representative of the population under scrutiny? Has it been introduced in a consistent and correct way? INFORMATION GOVERNANCE How can organisation assure that they protect people privacy when handling personal health data? How can organisation successfully integrate GDPR regulation into daily routines? How can health data be safely handled through trustworthy health ICT systems? TRUSTWORTHINESS OF HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS How can healthICT system that handle data be conceived and used in way that meet the highest data privacy requirements? Does the system function a it wa meant to function? seals, certification & BENCHMARKING What type ofquality assessment auditscan ascertain that an organisation that is treating health data doe so in trustworthy way ? What is the value of a label or a certificate? data interoperability standard Is there a clear definition of how data should be mapped and transferred from one health ICT system to another? INTERACTION BETWEEN STAKEHOLDERS How can stakeholder share challenge and solution to scale up the us of health data? As a multi-stakeholder organisation,i~HD can leverage understanding and facilitate scaled-up, judicious data sharing and re-use. Learn why health data is important for each stakeholder group Patients, caregivers, patient representatives, citizen and population health / prevention organisation When all your health professional have access to your up-to-date health data, they are able to provide more efficient, higher quality, safer and more personalised care and care coordination. When you have access to your health data, you can better manage your own health. Health data provided to scientific research will speed up the development of new medical product and treatment for individual who need them. Judicious use of health data will boost health care provider ability to become learning health system and facilitate: the delivery of safer evidence-based care and improve health outcome a more efficient use of health care resource participation in more clinical research and allow for more inhouse research By analysing great number of health data, health policy maker and funders can: give recognition to high-quality and value-based care better guide ongoing healthcare and prevention programme improve public health strategy and plan for the future Pharmaceutical and life science organisation are bringing health care research and innovation to a higher level through the analysis of high-quality real-world data and research data. They therefore: need to raise awareness of the importance of re-using health data demonstrate the trustworthiness and privacy-compliance of their own data handling and system collaborate with data provider whose data and system have been validated a well The implementation of interoperabilitystandards ha become vital to facilitate the transfer of health data between health ICT system and the sharing of health data for secondary use. Certification organisation perform audit so a to provide an objective evaluation of the trustworthiness or quality of health data or health ICT system used by research platforms, health apps, governments, care professional etc. With a growing interest in sharing and re-using health data and the rise of new digital health technologies, the health ICT industry is challenged by an increased demand for value-added interoperable solution for the trustworthy capture, management, exchange and analysis of high quality data. Whether the aim is to participate in clinical research, to build and share knowledge, to respond to local and nation-wide health challenge or to prevent sickness and disease, high-quality and trustworthy health data catalysis the opportunity for academic and research center to stay on top of their game. Health & data strategy organisation provide both operational and strategic advice, business intelligence, data warehouse service etc. The quality of these service is directly linked to the presence and the trustworthiness of health data. The growing importance of health data ha led to new opportunity for the data-driven industry: wearables, AI, brokerage service In order to gain wide-spread credibility and trust, this sector need to meet strict requirement and produce evidence related to their trustworthiness and the quality of the data they use. (*) Presented by the CEO of Kaiser Permanente during a conference keynote address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Data quality You&nbspare&nbsphere: Data Quality Health data quality, a dynamic complexity Good data provides the rightinsights.Be prepared for new opportunities! Deliver safe,personalisedand evidence-based patient care Optimisecare coordination and care pathway Embrace value-based health care Participate inclinical studies, accelerate newmedical advance andopen upnew revenue stream Minor errors, major implication Ensuring high-quality data seems evident and straightforward, but unfortunately this is not the case in practice. Several study have demonstrated that routinely collected health data today is of variable quality, and is often not fit for the intended purpose. The annual financial impact of poor data quality on organisation is estimated to lie between $9.7 million and $3.1 trillion (Gartner & IBM). Clinical decision can be misguided when based on low quality health data. For example, a study found that 48% of patient required additional monitoring, examination or treatment after medication error resulting from weight error (Selbst et al., 1999 , Pediatric Emergency Care). Further, cleaning data in preparation of conducting research is time-consuming. Incomplete or incorrect personal health data can result in erroneous clinical decision support output. In addition, data quality issue in patient subpopulation can yield biased research findings. Incomplete or incorrect personal health data can result in erroneous clinical decision support output. In addition, data quality issue in patient subpopulation can yield biased research findings. Our data quality assessment framework 9 data quality dimension Designed for patient care, organisational learning and research For health data providers, user and supporter Based on scientific literature Guided by our Data Quality Task Force Approved by 70 hospital representative Together, we scale up your health data quality so you can trust what you learn Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested to learn more about data quality? Would you like more information regarding a data quality assessment? Contact our Data Quality Manager for a free intake meeting. (1)Hirata, K. M., Kang, A. H., Ramirez, G. V., Kimata, C., & Yamamoto, L. G. (2019). Pediatric Weight Errors and Resultant Medication Dosing Errors in the Emergency Department. Pediatric Emergency Care, 35(9), 637642. (2) Selbst, S. M., Fein, J. A., Osterhoudt, K., & Ho, W. (1999). Medication error in a pediatric emergency department. Pediatric Emergency Care, 15(1), 14. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Information governance: trustworthy, safe data use You&nbspare&nbsphere: Information Governance Are you doing enough to protect health data? Re-using health data is crucial for advancing research and health care. But health data is highly personal and sensitive information, and it protection is strongly regulated. 0 of EU citizen want to share health data on the precondition that data is secure and only accessible by authorised party source: ec.europa.eu/health/ How can we balancethe need toreuse health data with protecting people privacy? How can you ensurerobust data protection whilst re-using health data? Health data protection: privacy, security, ethic Health data use is tightly governed. However, the regulatory requirement need careful understanding and are subject to change. Information governance Organisations around the world who provide service to EU citizen have to comply with theGeneral Data Protection Regulation(GDPR). GDPR ha to work alongside with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. Reliance on health ICT system Organisations need to provide assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using the health ICT system. Privacy, ethical, security and data protection compliance is essential. Reliance on educated staff Having robust policies, code and practice is important, and ensuring all your staff understand appropriate data protection is equally important. Convince your stakeholder of your trustworthy use of health data Our information governance programme We have developed two set of practical solution to address the compliance and assurance need of organisation handling health data. Our programme focus on education, support and advisory services. GDPR Tutorial We educate and align your staff through a customised GDPR course that connects to your specific need Information Governance Certification Programme We ass the conformity of your processes, tool and practice against a unique set of international ISO-accredited(*) criterion Whyi~HD? The i~HD team ha acquired it knowledge on information governance during 30 year of experience in R&D projects. In addition, our team member liaise with a task force composed of leader across Europe in law, information governance and security, engineering and regulatory oversight. Codes of practice Standard operating procedure DPIA template 142 assessment criterion included in our Information Governance Certification Programme Educational material for cutting-edge question in data protection and information governance currently involved in 11 EU project 15 high-calibre international expert in our dedicated task force We connect their expertise to data user such a pharmaceutical companies, medtech, hospitals, research project and initiative who analyse health data in order to improve their health care service and speed up innovative research. Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested to learn more about information governance? Would you like more information regarding our GDPR tutorial or an assessment of your organisationsinformation governance conformity? Contactour DPO and Information Governance Lead for a free intake meeting. (*) i~HD is in the final stage of preparation to apply for an ISO accreditation. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Trustworthy Health ICT Systems You&nbspare&nbsphere: Trustworthy Health ICT Systems Scaling up the quality of your health ICT system to get the most out of health data Health ICT system and the data they handle have more and more come to the forefront a critical business function for any health care organisation. The requirement of state-of-the-art software are multiplying and becoming more complex due to: the boost of Artificial Intelligence (AI) the increasing need for connecting ICT system GDPR compliance escalating demand by customer and regulator etc. It is a huge challenge for ICT developer to stay on top of these fast-changing requirement and to implement them accordingly. ICT company need solution to keep the trust of their stakeholders. Assessing health ICT system will improve their effectiveness, reliability and meaningful use i~HD expertise in health ICT system assessment related to health data i~HD ha developed expertise and programme to cover functional testing of ICT system with the focus on data handling and data flows. Benefits of an independent assessment i~HD guarantee independent assessment performed by international peer auditors. The outcome of the assessment is always a report, which can be accompanied by an i~HD quality label Obtaining an i~HD quality label mean that your organisation can demonstrate the conformity of it products, services, organisational process and practice with specified requirement outlined in standardised scheme based on validated criterion enhance it reputation with users, regulators, industry and all other interested stakeholder and boost your customer satisfaction facilitate trade, market access, fair competition and consumer acceptance at a national and international level and in an expanding health system landscape improve the quality of the internal process Good software, great data Fundamentals of ani~HD system quality assessment An independent i~HD system quality assessment always includes the following fundamentals: Scoping & objective Depending on the complexity of the ICT system and the objective of the assessment, scoping is absolutely necessary. Scoping can be done from a technical, geographical, or medical perspective. Criteria Criteria are the foundation of a high-quality assessment. They have to be fine-grained, unambiguous, auditable and preferably defined In consensus by all party involved. Documentation & auditor SOPs In addition to the unambiguous character of the criteria, the criterion need to be documented for the software developers. Auditor SOPs (standard operating procedures) are always developed a an obligatory requirement to a successful assessment. Scenarios & test data During the assessment, the auditor use validated scenario which have been customised to each assessment project. Test data is required to properly execute the test case and to verify the expected output in the software application under assessment. Audit The Audit will be performed by a team of independent multidisciplinary peer auditors. Report The auditor provide i~HD, the auditing body, with a draft report identifying the conformity and the non-conformities. i~HD will hand over the final report to the software vendor/sponsor/client. Quality label An assessment may result in an i~HD quality label. i~HD a your partner for criterion selection and validation Over 1700 fine-grained validated criterion i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria, including 60 validated criterion relating to clinical data platforms. The design, the development and the validation of the criterion set is executed in close collaboration with RAMIT and EuroRec. Both organisation have a long history a scheme owners. Validation of new criterion set As new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, such a regulatory body (governments), industry or the software vendor itself, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Thanks to our specific expertise in the development, the design and the validation of high-quality and fine-grained criteria, we are well placed to support your criterion validation process. We guarantee high-quality, peer-reviewed, validated, fit-for-purpose and auditable fine-grained criterion Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested to learn more about our repository of quality criteria? Would you like more information regarding an assessment of your health ICT system? Contact our Systems Quality Programme Manager for a free intake meeting. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Data Interoperability Standards for seamless data sharing You&nbspare&nbsphere: Data Interoperability Standards Why we promote the development and use of interoperability standard As people get health care in more than one facility, their clinical information is stored in different electronic health systems. Re-using health data for better individual and collective health care provision implies the transfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system. Unfortunately, health ICT system use different standards, or no standard at all, which mean that not all data can be easily linked and connected. Hence there is a need for interoperability standards, which define how clinical information should be transferred. Standards facilitate seamless sharing of information between health information system Interoperability standards: a long history Still a challenge There is a long history of developing international standard to enable mapping between health ICT system.i~HD expert bring 30 year of history in interoperability research and standard making. Bodies such a CEN, ISO, HL7, IHE, WHO, LOINC, SNOMED, CDISC and OMOP are example of organisation that have defined relevant part of the standard landscape for the kind of data transfer they specialise in. However, despite this rich array of available standards, the experience of most health care professional and patient is a lack of connectivity. People undertaking large-scale research struggle to bring together the data they need, on enough patients, and their data harmonisation cost are a substantial part of the total cost of undertaking research. Towards a connected and collaborative health environment This landscape is changing, thankfully.Health care funders (health ministries, health insurance) increasingly want care to be connected. They are starting to demand better clinical outcome and to financially incentivise those outcomes. This stimulates, for the first time, a business case for hospital to be more interoperable. Secondly, country are now making substantial investment in research infrastructure that aggregate the data at large population levels. These investment are gradually also trickling down to health care organisation a incentive to have better connected and better quality data. Improved interoperability is a critical success factor for making better use of data i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard Some example We have developed an education syllabus for teaching the public and health professional about the International Patient Summary. We have contributed to an interoperability guide for health decision makers, that will be promoted through the eHealth Network to Member State health ministries. Through our participation in the project , we are involved in bridging clinical research and healthcare standards. We have been involved in project that promote the adoption of interoperability standards, and help to guide health care organisations, health professionals, patient and the public and industry about the value of interoperability standard and why they should adopt them. For example, i~HD wa a partner in the project which ha helped to promote co-operation between country internationally to develop a standard for exchanging patient health summaries, and demonstrated it value in emergency disaster recovery situations. Through our sister institute EuroRec we are involved in a DigitalHealthEurope project , co-ordinated by i~HD member empirica, which is promoting the importance of interoperability across all stakeholders. DigitalHealthEurope ha also developed a portal to explain interoperability standard to the public. This website went live early 2021. Interested?Get in touch! Would you like more information on how we can help you with regard to interoperability standards? Contact i~HD President address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2019 Interoperability in health care Facilitating seamless connectionof health data source through interoperability standard Digital Health Standards ha been created by co-ordinated by in collaboration with Connecting health data source is crucial to enhance individual care and allow for big health data analysis.We can all help break down the health data silo by promoting the use of interoperability standards. Calling patients, health care providers, researchers, health authority and industry to join the dot Health data is more and more collected and stored electronically, often through a variety of digital technologies, device and apps. The diversity of health information technology mean that data is often collected in separate, unconnected silos. We need to connect health data sources, for many reasons. We need to champion the use of interoperability standard to connect health data and improve research & care An answer to your key question What are health data standards? How can interoperability standard help connect health data sources? Why arent we there yet? What are the obstacle and facilitating factors? How do health data standard function? How can digital system understand the structure, the format and the meaning of health information? Which are the different level of interoperability? Which are the major health data standards? Who develops health standards? How do standard development organisation work? With example of major health standards. Success story Discover some success story where health data standard have helped to secure safety and quality of care. Big data for the early identification of other disease associated with cancer National Portal for Digital Exchange of COVID-19 Patient Data in The Netherlands Shared Medication Treatment Plan Switzerland Health Optimum for care institute connection through telemedicine Italy One national IT-system for large-scale COVID-19 testing in the Netherlands Feedback? Suggestions? Would you like to share your success story with us? Do you have idea how to further promote interoperability standards? Other suggestions? Just send u a message. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. About u Digital Health Standards is a joint communication effort between the DigitalHealthEurope project, empirica and The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data to grow awareness about the importance of health ICT standards. Our goal is to provide educational information about health data standard to enable decision makers, SMEs and the public to better understand the health ICT standard landscape, promote the value of interoperability standards, show when and where standard adoption can lead to valuable and needed interoperability, champion the adoption of standards, potentially a a positive disruptive influence in our ecosystem. Digital Health Standards ha been created by co-ordinated by in collaboration with The DigitalHealthEurope (DHE) project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353 Hosted and maintained by c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium 2024 i~HD The website draw on a wealth of useful material from a wide range of standard development organisation and research bodies. 2020 2024 i~HD Scaling up the health ecosystem You&nbspare&nbsphere: Scaling up the Health Ecosystem Working together to maximise the benefit from health data All stakeholder need to collaborate in scaling up the learning from health data, working together to collect, curate, share and analyse data across care and research, for the benefit of all. Make trustworthy decision on real world evidence Focus health system on patient outcome Promote better data quality Empower patient to manage their care Prove the reliability of mHealth apps Promote good practice in data sharing Implement big data infrastructure Justify public support for health data reuse Some of our project and initiative i~HD engages in many project and initiative that bring stakeholder together to realise their value in collaborating, and to work on specific project together that harness the power of health data. i~HD join dot across the whole ecosystem! Data protection for AI-powered application >> Codes of conduct for big data >> Data protection in research >> Registries >> Genomics >> mHealth Programmes >> Interoperability >> Certification >> Standards adoption >> Medicines safety in pregnancy >> Promoting patient outcome >> Rare disease >> Quality labelling EHRs >> Heart failure >> Data Saves Lives: public understanding >> Medicines adherence >> Medicines identification >> Data quality >> Real World Evidence >> mHealth >> Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested in scaling up the learning from health data? Would you like more information how working together can maximise the benefit from health data? Contact our Project Manager for a free intake meeting. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Our Programmes We create flexible programme to help implement good re-use of high-quality health data Data Quality Programme We assist you with customised health data quality advice Information Governance Programme : We ass the privacy, security and data protection compliance of processes, tool and practice relating to health ICT system : We train your staff member with the EU General Data Protection Regulation through a tailored tutorial that meet your specific need We help develop your information governance approach by mean of tailor-made advice,e.g. todefine guideline such a code of practice, information security policy etc. R&D Programme i~HD play a strong role in . We highly value participating in these project and initiative because it allows u to keep connected with the state of the art in innovative aspect of health care and clinical research. The project provide u with opportunity to put our service and expertise into practical scenarios, to learn, to improve and to expand our portfolio of health data solutions. Organisations who successfully pas a conformity / improvement / benchmarking assessment, can be awarded with a quality label address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD IDHIS Information Governance Certification Programme IDHIS Information Governance & Data Privacy for Health ICT Systems For data facilitators, there is a new certification scheme to ensure trust in your organisation and to boost your business Huge challenge in the re-use of health data are building and retaining trust and demonstrating GDPR compliance, amongst data providers, data facilitator and data users. This lack of trust may slow down your business, namely a a data facilitator connecting health data sources, bridging from data provider to data users. With so many data breach scandals, cybersecurity risk and high penalty in the public eye, assurance of compliance ha never been more vital for all stakeholders. Without (accredited) certification, the market for these ICT platform (data facilitators) will grow slowly and opportunity to conduct real-world data research, to respond to the need within clinical research and health care, will be lost. Prove the integrity of your health ICT system, gain trust, increase efficiency and boost your business Need for an Independent Information Governance Assessment Are these your organisation concerns? Is your handling of health data secure, transparent and reliable? Do you have up-to-date and state-of-the-art knowledge on privacy, ethic and security? How will you ensure trust and boost your business? Are you compliant with national and international legislation? How do you balance the tension between being GDPR-compliant and the value proposition of re-using health data? In order to give confidence to all interested party that a product, process or service is compliant to specified requirement such a GDPR, certification is essential. The value of certification is the degree of confidence and trust that is established by an impartial and competent demonstration of fulfilment of specified requirement by a third party. Secure, protected and ethical health data flow must be demonstrated in order to foster trust and generate value. There is a growing demand to demonstrate that ICT system comply with the highest information governance standards. IDHIS is the first information governance certification programme of it kind IDHIS audit the conformity of data flow throughout the health ICT system against a unique set of international criterion relating to privacy, ethics, security and data protection. Independent auditor examine how the organisation govern their staff, processes, tool and procedure by assessing their information governance. IDHIS certification programme award those organisation that have an information governance-compliant health ICT system with a Certificate (IG1-2020). The certificate owner show to their customer that their data governance is trustworthy and conforms to the highest international standards. Increasetrustworthiness Who may apply for IDHIS? The IDHIS certification programme is a must-have for ICT company that are facilitating (re)-use of health datavia their ICT platform. These ICT platform act a a bridge, retrieving data from data providers, generating added value to this data and make it available to data users, e.g. research, A.I. , Learning Health Systems. IDHIS, a journey together Why i~HD? Experienced assessment & certifying body ISO 17065. Complementary approach to relevant ISO standards. Unique framework using script based on the uniqueness of your organisation. Authors of Codes of practice, standard operation procedure and DPIA templates. International knowledge with local interpretation and guidance. Over 20 year of experience. International expert in i~HDs dedicated task force. Positive impact for your organisation External Re-assure your stakeholder that your health data handling is accountable, transparent, reliable and secure. Demonstrate your data is ready to be safely re-used for innovation and research. Boost your branding and market impact. INTERNAL Boost your service quality throughout your business. Increase the quality of your organisation governance. Improve your time efficacy at all levels. Improve confidence in your health data flows. Improve your service towards the expectation and need of your client and business partners, by improved operation flows. IDHIS Criteria Sets Europes first Information Governance & Data privacy for Healthcare ICT Systems Certification scheme is based on a set of 142 criterion focusing on: Example of a criterion (accountability) The organisation ha an updated and version-managed policy for the agreements/contracts that organises and properly identifies them so that the policy comprehensively cover any data processing within the baseline agreements. Description of IDHIS Criteria Sets The first subset of criterion check if the organisation health data flow and health data handling comply with the international and national GDPR regulations. Risk-based policies, procedures, code of practice, data assets, data processing tools, internal audit and corrective action and consequent updating must be in place. Are definition clear in your contracts? How do you check the ethical concerns, the execution of the data privacy rules, informed consent procedures, data handling responsibilities, the applicability of the contract and the duration of the contract? Data handling is never without risks! How do you manage your company risk on your databases, data formats, middleware, APIs? The transparency criterion shall ensure that the data subject is correctly informed and fully aware of the processing of any personal data. The data subject must be aware of the processing of any personal data. The data subject must be aware of risks, rules, safeguards, and their right in relation to the processing and how to exercise these rights. The organisation registry of client and partner participating in the data processing have to be updated and consultable. As a data subject, do I have all relevant information and are all legal base defined a legitimate interests? How is this checked within your company? Are you sure that your client register is up to date? What are the corrective measure if the register is not up-to-date? This section refers to their onboarding and offboarding of user procedures, including access management and their management of cyber security. This also includes the organisation ability to monitor and manage risk, their procedure for review and improvement and penetration tests, a well a internal audits. How do you check if the information security action plan is managed correctly? Do you check if the employee responsibility related to data handling are defined and executed in line with the ISMI? This set of Audit Readiness criterion focus on the management and availability of log of the auditing file and whether the organisation is able to respond to external audits. This section also focus on the protection of the log a well a their details. Can your audit log prove that the data have been retained, archived or destroyed according to the contract/agreements, ethic or scientific committee and/or statutory legal requirements? Do your data asset register contain audit log and are checked for correct use? This set of Data Processing criterion check on determining minimum data requirements, upholding data inventory agreements, conducting Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA), handling minimisation of data through anonymisation and pseudonymisation and retaining data a per regulatory requirement are also within the focus of this set of criteria. Does your organisation check if the data minimisation and retention conform a defined in the agreements? What if this is not the case? How are you sure that your DPIAs cover all GDPR and local supervisory authority policies? This set check the ability to enforce it own compliance and contractual obligation on it staff and partners. It also check the enforcement of data protection supervisory authorities. They also ass the performance of the Data Protection Officer and the proof of internal staff training regarding correct and adequate data handling matters. If supervisory authority start an investigation on a GDPR issue, are you prepared to enforce the required information? Is this also defined in the agreement with your clients/stakeholders? Does your DPO reply to external query within the required time limits? How can you ensure robust data protection whilst re-using health data? Discover thejourney of the first-ever IG1-2020awardee Novellas Healthcare NV ha been awarded the GDPR certification after the IDHIS audit. Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested to learn more about our IDHIS Programme? Contact our Audit Manager for a free intake meeting. We ensure a smooth certification process address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD R&D project Health data is centre stage in many of the call topic for research and development project and initiative sponsored by industry and national eHealth and research bodies. There is a burning need to collect, use and reuse health data for understanding disease trajectories, identifying trends, predicting evolutions, taking the right care planning decision and accelerating research. The health data challenge This growing reuse of health data go hand in hand with the growing awareness of the importance of the quality of data the interoperability and integrity of research platform good information governance practice State-of-the-art innovation i~HD play a strong role in national and international R&D project and European-wide collaborative initiatives. We highly value participating in these project and initiative because it allows u to keep connected with the state of the art in innovative aspect of health care and clinical research. The project provide u with opportunity to put our service and expertise into practical scenarios, to learn, to improve and to expand our portfolio of health data solutions. We are often invited to be a partner, providing expertise in many fields: data protection and GDPR compliance data sharing agreement anonymisation and pseudonymisation data quality benchmarking research platform quality assessment business modelling and sustainability dissemination and multi-stakeholder engagement Research Projects We are a partner in a diverse range of European Commission sponsored projects, in Horizon 2020, the Innovative Medicines Initiative and EIT Health. AFFIRMO: a multi-centre informatics driven clinical study to validate the effectiveness of a patient-centred, stratified care pathway for older patient with multimorbidity that includes atrial fibrillation Developing algorithm for the early detection of deterioration in advanced long-term conditions, well-coordinated care planning and integrated care to enhance quality of life A scalable and sustainable medical image platform utilising Artificial Intelligence (AI) to improve diagnostic accuracy, and enabling there future development of AI algorithm Large-scale generation of real world evidence for medicine safety in pregnancy and lactation, seeking to establish a sustainable Real World Evidence (RWE) ecosystem and stakeholder acceptance of RWE Scaling up paediatric clinical trial across Europe, with a small part of the work plan for methodology and tool including data management, standard and use of real world data DATA QUALITY CAMPUS Starting in March 2021, developing a virtual educational campusfocusing on EHR data quality and related topics, especially for thereuse of EHRs for research Reusing hospital EHR data within clinical trial by mapping and transferring data to Electronic Data Capture (clinical trial) systems, now in annual industry-supported project cycle Developing a generic specification, methodologies, tools, governance and business model for Integrated Research Platforms (IRPs) = multi-company multi-drug trials. 4 disease area pilot Developing scalable and secure distributed analysis platform and tool to conduct research using a network of European registry in autoimmune vasculitis Developing trustable and explainable Artificial Intelligence for personalised decision making in patient with haematological conditions, combining clinical and genomics data from a European network Improving patient acceptance, adherence and benefit from medicine by providing them with better and personalised information about their medicine and other health status monitoring Conduct novel PhD research, using linked health and life science data, for patient with autoimmune vasculitis a an example rare condition Promoting early identification and improving outcome for patient with psoriatic arthritis Establishing sustainable Health Outcomes Observatories at national and EU level to collect, use and reuse outcome to improve patient care and research. 3 disease and 4 country pilot Establishing sustainable Health Outcomes Observatories at national and EU level to collect, use and reuse outcome to improve patient care and research. 3 disease and 4 country pilot Ended in June 2019. Coordination and supported effort towards an interoperable international patient summary Supporting the adoption of ISO IDMP (ID of Medicinal Products) standard across Europe, supporting safer cross-border ePrescription, eDispensing and pharmacovigilance We are currently in project making trustworthy use of hospital electronic health record information to improve the efficiency and quality of clinical trials, project that are scaling up the generation of real-world evidence by networking multiple electronic health record and registry and other data sources. We are involved in research project focusing on specific patient populations, such a woman in pregnancy, and patient with rare diseases. We are working on societal challenge of improving healthcare, for example in patient with multiple long-term conditions, the collection and sharing of health outcome data across Europe and the creation of a knowledge hub on mobile health programmes. We have two project taking a deep dive into medicine information, one promoting the adoption of an international standard for the identification of medicinal products, and one enabling better medicine information to support patient empowerment and decision making. Collaborative Projects We are a partner in collaborative project that largely have industry or industry association funding. These include the Multiple Sclerosis Data Alliance, Data Saves Lives and a project with EFPIA on heart failure outcome data and value based health care. Discover the research project we are currently involved in. Collaboration co-ordinated by the European Patients Forum to promote the value of using health data to the public, sponsored by EFPIA, EIT Health, MedTechEurope Data Alliance to promote greater collaboration and data sharing amongst multiple sclerosis registry and clinical centres, pharma sponsored through annual grant Project exclusively with i~HD, through a grant from EFPIA, to ass the quality of routinely collected heart failure outcome data in 10 European hospital Our experience in European project Via our founding members, i~HD can boast 0 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN EU PROJECTS 0 R&D PROJECTS WE HAVE BEEN A PARTNER IN 0 EU PROJECTS IN 2021 0 EXPERTS CONTRIBUTING TO OUR NETWORK 0 RECENT EVENTS WE HAVE RUN OR PARTNERED i~HD expertise in R&D is built on a long history of participating in (EU-funded) project thanks to it founding member EuroRec and RAMIT (over 100 R&D projects), strengthened by our large international community of experts. We have a lot of successful proposal writing and project co-ordination expertise. Besides performing and supporting research, i~HD is able to assist research consortium in building sustainable model and solutions. i~HD is itself a successful sustainable outcome of EU R&D project in 2016. Being a neutral European wide non-for-profit association, i~HD can disseminate project progress and it final result to multiple stakeholder active in the domain of health data. Interested?Get in touch! If you are planning a new project proposal, you are welcome to discus the way in which we could contribute with . address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD ADLife EU-funded R&D project Personalized Care for Patients with Advanced Chronic Diseases Due to population ageing and advance in medical science, people with chronic disease including advanced severe life-threatening chronic disease live longer. Challenges are how to sustain quality independent living for the patient; support caregiver facing an increasing burden; create sustainable healthcare and social care system with limited resources. ADLIFE aim to provide a solution for the integration of therapy and approach targeting early detection and assessment of deterioration, advanced and well-coordinated care planning and integrated supportive care to enhance quality of life, reduce suffering and accelerate recovery for these patient and their families. It will deploy developed and validated personalised digital solution for integrated supportive care based on H2020 project C3-Cloud and Power2DM, previously tested in two health systems. The ADLIFE Toolbox solution include: a Personalised Care Plan Management Platform, Clinical Decision Support Services; Interoperability Solutions and Patient Empowerment Platform with Just-In Time Adaptive Intervention Delivery Engine. i~HD is a partner and lead work on data management and GDPR compliance, the communication of the project result to patients, the public and to healthcare systems, and contributes to the business plan for sustainability. The ADLIFE Project ha received funding from the European Union under the Horizon 2020 Programme, and started on 1 January 2020. Consortium Partners Asociacin Centro de Excelencia Internacional en Investigacin sobre Cronicidad (KRONIKGUNE), University of Strathclyde, The University of Warwick, Odense University Hospital, Falkiewicz Specialist Hospital, OptiMedis, Region Jmtland Hrjedalen, Assuta Ashdod Hospital, Software Research & Development Consultancy (SRDC), EVERIS, i~HD, Osakidetza, Maccabi Healthcare Services Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD AFFIRMO EU-funded R&D project Atrial Fibrillation Integrated Approach Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an irregular and often very rapid heart rhythm (arrhythmia) that can lead to blood clot in the heart. AF increase the risk of stroke, heart failure and other heart-related complications. The prevalence of AF is growing amongst Europes elderly population, often facing multimorbidity. The management of AF therefore requires a holistic approach rather than a single-disease approach with fragmented care. AFFIRMO aim to move from fragmentation to an integrated care strategy designed to be patient-centred. AFFIRMOs care pathway will improve the clinical management of older AF patients, taking into account personal treatment preferences, social context, polypharmacy etc. It will enable synergy and cooperation among the different health discipline involved, and shared decision-making with the patient. AFFIRMOs care pathway will rely on a digital platform develop to assist physician in applying and tailoring a personalised care strategy. i~HD is a consortium partner and handle all legal and ethical challenges. This involves leading work on information governance, GDPR compliance and data sharing. AFFIRMO ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 899871. It started on 1 May 2021 and will end on 30 April 2026. Consortium Partners Aalborg Universitet, Advice Pharma Group srl, Arrhythmia Alliance, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, European Union Geriatric Medicine Society aisbl, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, Faculty of Medicine University of Belgrade, Fondazione per il Tuo Cuore Onlus,Istituto Superiore di Sanita, Karolinska Institutet, Meditcinsky Universitet-Plovdiv, Moverim Consulting sprl, Ontonix srl, The University of Liverpool, Universiteit Gent, Universitatea de Medicina si Farmacie Carol Davila din Bucuresti, Universita Degli Studi di Padova, Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, The University of Manchester, Universidad de Murcia Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD AIDAVA EU-funded R&D project Automate Curation and Publishing of Personal Health Data through Artifical Intelligence All available personal health data of an individual in one consistent semantic model: through it sophisticated research project, the interdisciplinary AIDAVA consortium of 12 European partner and two associated partner will develop a digital solution, orchestrating diverse artificial intelligence technologies, for more efficient curation and publishing of personal health data, delivering interoperable and reusable personal health record for the benefit of patient and clinical researchers. The i~HD team lead on the ethical, legal and regulatory compliance supporting iBeChange in it mission to promote healthier outcome in the area of cancer care and prevention. i~HD is also responsible for developing the information governance frameworks, ensuring GDPR compliance, and data quality planning. i~HD is also developing an approach to incorporate the assessment of AI component a part of the wider governance tapestry in line with the forthcoming AI Act. Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD ASSESS DHT EU-funded R&D project Development And Harmonisation Of Methodologies For Assessing Digital Health Technologies In Europe Development & harmonisation of methodology for assessing digital health technology in Europe ASSESS DHT is a European initiative that will increase the adoption of trustworthy and effective Digital Health Technologies (DHTs) across Europe, enabling a more coherent digital single market, for health system and patient to access DHT from all over Europe and giving industry a European market. i~HD is the scientific co-lead for the whole project and the specific lead for Work Package 3 focused on assessment criterion relating to data protection, data quality, interoperability and cybersecurity, leading on the development of the sustainable repository of evidence and guidance to HTA assessor and contribute to stakeholder engagement and dissemination activities. Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Big Picture EU-funded R&D project A European Digital Pathology Platform Many disease are still diagnosed, monitored and studied in part on the basis of biological sample that have been mounted on a glass slide and studied under a microscope. Today, that analysis is still carried out by a human pathologist, but what if the slide could be scanned and analysed using artificial intelligence (AI)?And what if they could be placed in a repository and made available to the scientific community? These are the question the BIGPICTURE project hope to answer. To achieve it goal, the project will first create the infrastructure needed to store, share and process million of (often heavy) image files. Secondly, they will address legal and ethical issue to ensure patient privacy and data confidentiality issue are fully respected. Consortium Partners Azienda Ospedaliera Per L Emergenza Cannizzaro, Bayer Aktiengesellschaft, Biobanks And Biomolecular Resources Research Infrastructure Consortium (Bbmri-Eric), Boehringer Ingelheim International gmbh, Csc-Tieteen Tietotekniikan Keskus Oy, Cytomine, Deciphex Limited, Digital Pathology Association Inc, Din Deutsches Institut Fuer Normung E.V., European Society Of Pathology, F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Fraunhofer Gesellschaft Zur Foerderung Der Angewandten Forschung E.V., Gbg Forschungs GMBH, Haute Ecole Specialisee De Suisse Occidentale, Helsingin Ja Uudenmaan Sairaanhoitopiirin Kuntayhtym, Institut De Recherches Internationales Servier Iris, Institut Pasteur, Janssen Pharmaceutica Nv, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Linkopings Universitet, Medizinische Universitaet Wien, Medizinische Universitat Graz, Novartis Pharma AG, Novo Nordisk A/S, Ostergotlands Lans Landsting, Owkin France, Pfizer Limited, Philipps Universitaet Marburg, Phit BV, Sanofi-Aventis Recherche & Developpement, Sectra AB, Semmelweis Egyetem, Stichting Het Nederlands Kanker Instituut-Antoni Van Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis, Stichting Katholieke Universiteit, Stichting Lygature, Technische Universitaet Muenchen, Technische Universiteit Eindhoven, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, The Leeds Teaching Hospitals National Health Service Trust, The University Of Warwick, Time.Lex, Ttopstart BV, UCB Biopharma SRL, Universita Degli Studi Di Milano-Bicocca, Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, Universit De Lige, University Of Turku, Uppsala Universitet Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Conception EU-funded R&D project Real world evidence on safe, effective medicine use in pregnancy and lactation Conception is developing an ecosystem for generating and disseminating real world evidence on the use of medicine in pregnancy and during breastfeeding, the effectiveness and safety of these medicines. The evidence will be generated through a network of woman health database held by consortium partner and third parties, and published for access by women, healthcare provider and other decision maker including medicine regulators.This will be achieved by generating, cataloguing, linking, collecting and analysing data from pharmacovigilance, modelling, routine healthcare, pregnant woman and their child through a large network. i~HD is a partner and lead a work package on multi-stakeholder engagement and consensus building on the acceptance of real-world evidence, in particular interacting with medicine regulator such a EMA. It also lead a task on information governance and GDPR compliance. The ConcePTION project ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA. Consortium partner Novartis, UMC Utrecht, Ulster University, Uppsala Universitet, BBMRI-ERIC, Alma Mater Studiorum Universit Di Bologna, i~HD, KU Leuven, Medicines & Healthcare product Regulatory Agency, Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Centre Lareb, Ars Toscana, Karolinska Institutet, The Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals, University of Kwazulu-Natal, University of Oslo, St Georges University of London, Eurohealth, UMCG, Orcion, Inserm, BioNotus, Hpitaux de Toulouse, Universit Degli Studi di Ferrara, Prifysgol Abertawe Swansea University, Universit de Genve, EFCCP, The Synergist, Entis, The University of Manchester, Region Stockholm, Elevate, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, IFC, FISABIO, Ttopstart, European Medicines Agency, RIVM, Janssen, Sanofi, Takeda, GSK, Lilly, Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Merck, Novo Nordisk, UCB, Abbvie, Ellegaard, Covance, Teva Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD conect4children EU-funded R&D project Harmonising clinical trial in child across Europe The conect4children (collaborative network for European clinical trial for child (c4c)) consortium aim to enhance the competitiveness of Europe, a a critical region for developing medicine for children. This project ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking. The Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA. i~HD play an advisory role a a third party in this IMI project, providing expertise in semantic interoperability and the development of a standardised paediatric data dictionary. Consortium Partners Fondazione PENTA Onlus, The University of Liverpool, Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Ges, EURORDISRare Diseases Europe, European Cystic Fibrosis Society, Radboud University Medical Centre, Swiss Clinical Trial Organisation, Associao para Investigao e Desenvolvimento da Faculdade de Medicina, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, University College London, The European Society for Paediatric Oncology (SIOP Europe), University of Tartu, Okids, Newcastle University, Universiteit Gent, Universitaetsklinikum Heidelberg, Aristotelio Panepistimio Thessalonikis, Instytut Pomnik-Centrum Zdrowia Dziecka, Helse Bergen HF*Haukeland University Hospital, ECNP, Robert Bosch Gesellschaft fr medizinische Forschung, University College Cork, Karolinska Institutet, Fundaci Sant Joan de Deu, Servizo Galego de Saude, Gyermekgygyszati Klinikai Vizsgli Hlzat, Fondazione per la Ricerca Farmacologica Gianni Benzi Onlus, ECRIN European Clinical Research Infrastructure Network, The Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, Institut National de la Sant et de la Recherche Mdicale, Helios Dr. Horst Schmidt Kliniken Wiesbaden, ARSENAL.IT-Centro Veneto Ricerca e Innovazione per la Sanit Digitale, Univerzita Karlova, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Bayer, Sanofi-Aventis Research & Development, Eli Lilly, UCB Biopharma, Novartis Pharma, Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development, Pfizer Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD GenoMed4all EU-funded R&D project Genomics and Personalized Medicine for all through Artificial Intelligence in Haematological Diseases GENOMED4ALL will support the pooling of genomic, clinical data and other -omics health data through a secure and privacy respectful data sharing platform based on the novel Federated Learning scheme, to advance research in personalised medicine in haematological disease thanks to advanced novel AI model and standardized sharing of cross-border data. Consortium Partners Alma Mater Studiorum Universita di Bologna, Assistance Publique Hpitaux de Paris, Australo Interinnov Marketing Lab sl, Chambre de Commerce et dIndustrie de Rgion Paris Ile-de-France, Cineca Consorzio Interuniversitario, Datawizard srl, Dxc Technology Servicios Espana sl, Ethniko Kai Kapodistriako Panepistimio Athinon, Fundacio Centre de Regulacio Genomica, Fundacio Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron Institut de Recerca, Gerencia Regional de Salud de Castilla y Leon, Humanitas Mirasole spa, Idryma Technologias Kai Erevnas, Kobenhavns Universitet, Life Technologies gmbh, Mll Munchner Leukamielabor gmbh, The Cyprus Foundation for Muscular Dystrophy Research, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, Universidad Politecnica de Madrid, Universita Degli Studi di Padova, Universita Degli Studi di Torino, Universitt Leipzig, Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Gravitate Health EU-funded R&D project Empowering and Equipping Europeans with health information for Active Personal Health Management and Adherence to Treatment Safe use of medication and adherence to treatment are significant public health challenge where understanding, access to accurate information, capability to comprehend, and trust play major roles. The worldwide research project Gravitate-Health aim for improved access and understanding of health information, for safe use of medicines, risk minimization and improved quality of life. To that effect, Gravitate-Health will develop and test an integrated, digital, user-centric health information solution seeking to demonstrate tangible improvement in availability and understanding of health information from a set of trusted sources, starting with regulator-approved medicinal product information and the Electronic Health Record International Patient Summary (EHR-IPS). The main output will be an open source digital platform and a white paper with recommendation on realistic strategy to strengthen access, understanding and future use of digital service like electronic product information (ePI) a a tool for risk minimization. i~HD lead a work package focused on the pilot study and their evaluation, to derive the evidence on how delivering better quality medication and health information to patient through mobile technology can impact on their understanding of their medication, adherence to it and health outcomes. We are also contributing to the business modelling and long term sustainability strategy. The project ha received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 945334. This joint undertaking receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations [EFPIA]. It started on 1 November 2020 for a project duration of 60 months. Consortium Partners Universitet i Oslo (Coordinator), Norwegian Centre for eHealth Research, Akershus Universitetssykehus, Norsk e-Helse AS, Statens Legemiddelverk, Pfizer Limited (Project Lead), Eli Lilly and Company Limited, MDSOL Europe Ltd, Datapharm Limited, Karolinska Institutet, FrisQ Holding AB, AstraZenica AB, Kbenhavns Universitet, Trifork Public A/S, HL7 Europe, Forum European de Patients, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, The Synergist, UCB Biopharma SRl, Datawizard SRL, Universit Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Universidad Politcnica de Madrid, Open Evidence, Servicio Madrileo de Salud, Agencia Espaola de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios, empirica Gesellschaft fr Kommunikations-und Technologieforschung mbH, HIMSS Europe GmBH, Bayer Aktiengesellschaft, Grnenthal GmBH, Trinity College Dublin, European Connected Health Alliance, Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited, Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu Agentschap Collegee ter Beoordeling van Geneesmiddelen, MINDVIEW Business Consulting and Research limited, Servios Partilhados do Ministrio da Sade E.P.E., Guardtime O, Novartis Pharma AG, F. Hoffmann La Roche AG, Division of Clinical Informatics at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Hippocrates EU-funded R&D project Promoting early identification and improving outcome for patient with psoriatic arthritis HIPPOCRATES is a research project which aim at promoting early identification and improving outcome for patient with psoriatic arthritis.By looking into the disease mechanism of psoriatic arthritis, the 26 European partner collaborating in HIPPOCRATES aim at improving diagnostic and therapeutic option for patient living with this condition. Through gaining a better understanding of the complex interplay between clinical and environmental factors, genotype and molecular pathways, the team aim to enable earlier diagnosis and a more accurate prediction of disease progression. This will revolutionise treatment and deliver profound patient benefits.The HIPPOCRATES partner contribute a diverse range of background including clinical, scientific, data analytics, ethics, patient participation a well a SME and pharmaceutical industry expertise. Data management In order to achieve it goals, the HIPPOCRATES project will set up a single integrated database combining the cohort and datasets of the most important European PsA study and establish a Europe-wide library of relevant clinical biosamples. HIPPOCRATES will also establish a large, prospective, observational study of 25,000 patient with psoriasis who will be recruited and followed on-line for development of PsA. i~HD ha responsibility for ensuring robust data protection, data management and FAIR data sharing. The project run for a period of five years, starting in June 2021, with a total budget of EUR 21 million provided by the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI 2), a Joint Undertaking of the European Union and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Consortium Partners Academisch Medisch Centrum Bij De Universiteit Van Amsterdam, ATTUROS Limited, Biopharma SRL, Consorci Institut Dinvestigacions Biomediques August Pi I Sunyer, Eurice European Research and Project Office Gmbh, European League Against Rheumatism, Fraunhofer Gesellschaft zur Foerderung der Angewandten Forschung e.V., Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Kungliga Tekniska Hoegskolan, National University of Ireland Dublin (UCD), Novartis Pharma AG, Rigshospitalet, SIB Institut Suisse de Bioinformatique, Stichting Group for Research and Assessment of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis EU, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, UCB, Universit Cattolica Del Sacro Cuore, Universitaetsklinikum Erlangen, VIB VZW Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD H2O EU-funded R&D project Health Outcomes Observatory Strengthening The Patient Voice In Health Care H2O is a five-year project (Oct. 2020- Sept. 2026) which strives to empower patient with digital tool to monitor their outcome in a standardized manner. Patients can share these data with their physician and other healthcare provider to facilitate communication in an evidence-based, structured manner. In this way, they will be better able to collaborate with their treating clinician in making joint healthcare and treatment decision to obtain the best possible health outcomes. Additionally, collecting patient-reported outcome in a standardized way can, when the data are anonymized and aggregated, be used to help health system learn how to provide the best, most efficient care possible to all patients. Aggregated health outcome data at a national or European level can be a valuable resource for public health and clinical research. In order to safeguard patient health data, the highest level of integrity and data security will be ensured, by only communicating aggregate data and not patient level data, while at the same time enabling greater transparency of outcome to allow better decision making for both individual patient treatment a well a health system design. i~HD is a work package co-leader working with colleague especially on the governance model and sustainability of the planned H2O outcome observatories, on multistakeholder engagement and consensus building, and on information governance including GDPR compliance. H2O is funded through the Innovative Medicines Initiative.The consortium brings together patient group and the best of breed health outcome generation ecosystem, a well a expert in data standard and quality, psychometric methods, federated networks, governance, business modelling and IMI experience. Consortium Partners Medizinische Universitt Wien,Charit Universittsmedizin Berlin, Erasmus University Medical Center, Institut Catal de la Salut Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron, Kings College Hospital, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, European Patients Forum, The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD),The Hyve, Teamit Research, Karolinska University Hospital, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Takeda Pharmaceuticales International AG, Novartis Pharma AG, Abbvie INC,Eli Lilly and Company Limited, Medtronic International Trading SARL, Pfizer Limited, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Sanofi-Aventis Recherche & Developpement, JDRF International (AP), Trial Nation (AP) Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD iBeCHANGE EU-funded R&D project Addressing Psychosocial and Lifestyle Risk Factors to Promote Primary Cancer Prevention: An Integrated Platform to Promote Behavioural Change Europes Beating Cancer Plan set ha ambitious goal addressing key behavioral risk factor for cancer development, such a tobacco (target reduction of 30% by 2025), alcohol consumption (target reduction of 10% by 2025), unhealthy diet and physical inactivity. As about 40% of cancer case in the EU are preventable, health promotion and preventive measure for cancer can benefit from the implementation of behavioural change (BC) and emotional management (EM) in the general population. However, previous research and practice have generally failed to achieve sustainable BC due to two factors: 1) not taking into account recent BC concept showing the need of personalizing intervention and techniques; 2) not considering psychosocial feature and emotion (e.g. anxiety and depression), which can interfere with effective BC and increase the risk of developing cancer. The main objective of this project is to design, develop, and test the iBeChange platform, a user-focused management system that empowers people to achieve healthy and sustainable behavior and emotions. The iBeChange innovative system will be developed by expert from clinical and health psychology, oncology, epidemiology, ICT, data science, and the health policy. The iBeChange project will go beyond the state of the art of sustainable BC and EM by combining practice- and evidence-based knowledge coming from clinical psychology and BC theory with the potentiality of adaptive digital technology and artificial intelligence. Thus, the iBeChange system will be able to dynamically observe, learn about user behaviours, and then deliver tailored and effective health intervention in a dynamic learning process. The final goal of the iBeChnage project is to contribute to the goal of Europes Beating Cancer Plan and European Code Against Cancer by improving long-term primary cancer prevention through informing, supporting, and empowering EU citizens. This action is part of the Cancer Mission cluster of project on Prevention & early detection (behavioural change). The i~HD team, a a consortium partner, lead on the ethical, legal and regulatory compliance supporting iBeChange in it mission to promote healthier outcome in the area of cancer care and prevention. i~HD is responsible for developing the information governance frameworks, ensuring GDPR compliance, and data quality planning. i~HD is developing an approach to incorporate the assessment of AI component a part of the wider governance tapestry in line with the forthcoming AI Act. Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD IDERHA EU-funded R&D project Improving clinical decision-making and enhancing patient access to health innovation through better use of health data This pioneering project address the obstacle in accessing, integrating and analysing health data to maximize their value for patient care and medical research. Improving clinical decision-making and enhancing patient access to health innovation through better use of health data. IDERHA is part of the Europe Beating Cancer Plan. It will link and analyse, with artificial intelligence and machine learning, diverse human health data to improve early detection of lung cancer and the quality of life for individual with experience with lung cancer. i~HD lead on the ethical, legal and regulatory compliance for an integrated AI-driven platform. i~HD support IDERHAs mission to understand the implication of the forthcoming European health data space regulation and their impact on best practices. Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Label2Enable EU-funded R&D project Championing Standardisation for European Digital Health Label2Enable is one of the project the European Commission ha launched to contribute to an innovative, sustainable and globally competitive health industry. European leadership in digital technology like health apps creates job and economic growth, in particular with small- and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs). European standard are to ensure patient safety, quality of healthcare, effectiveness, interoperability and productivity. Citizens, health care provider and health system benefit from a swift uptake of health apps that significantly improve health outcomes. Health app manufacturer benefit from more efficiency in co-creating health apps that satisfy the need of patients, health care provider and health authority and regulator and accelerated time-to-market. The project consists of three pillars: Trust, Use and Adoption Trust Consortium partnersi-HD, , , and cooperate in the pillar Trust. They will co-create and test the CEN-ISO/TS 82304-2 handbook for accredited health app assessment organizations, in ISO terminology an ISO/IEC 17065 certification scheme. They will ensure that the handbook contains appropriate accepted assessment methodologies, aligns with EU legislation and values, produce the same consistent result regardless of the assessment organization involved, and work a well for app manufacturers. They will secure maintenance of the handbook after the project and enable accreditation of assessment organizations. They will also investigate if legislation for the label is sensible and who is to pay for the assessment. Use Consortium partner , , , and the cooperate in the pillar Use. They will investigate who consumer trust most to give them recommendation on health apps and what will also help people with low health literacy to use the quality label. They will find out what healthcare professional need in the detailed health app quality report to be able to recommend health apps and how to display the label effectively in app stores, app library and trusted sources. Adoption Consortium partner ,i-HD, , , and cooperate in the pillar Adoption to promote CEN-ISO/TS 82304-2. They will involve stakeholder through various channels. With use story of pilot with CEN-ISO/TS 82304-2 in Italy, Catalonia, and the Netherlands and potentially more country or regions, they will provide insight on how to implement the assessment framework effectively. Finally, they will explore with health insurer and health technology assessment body how the ISO assessment framework can help in decision-making on reimbursement of health apps. Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Multiple Sclerosis Data Alliance European collaborative project The Multiple Sclerosis Data Alliance (MSDA) is a global multi-stakeholder collaboration that wa launched in 2019. It is working to accelerate research insight for innovative care and treatment for people with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Scaling-up real-world MS data is necessary to transform the care of people with MS and MSDA envisions a patient-centric data ecosystem in which all stakeholder contribute and use big data to co-create the innovation needed to advance timely treatment and care of people with MS. The MSDA Toolbox aim to reduce the time needed to find and ass data registry and cohorts, building a data source catalogue and tool that can help a potential research user to understand the kind of data that is inside any data source before formalising a research data access request. The MSDA Academy focus on awareness raising, community building and education, providing education to the MS professional, research and patient community on topic relating to good practice in the use and sharing of data. We help shape the MSDA Academy workshop and the information governance approach i~HD is a partner in this consortium, which is being funded mainly by pharma industry sponsorship. We lead a work package on MSDA Academy workshops, and lead work on information governance (including GDPR compliance, and data sharing agreements). address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD PARADISE European collaborative project PersonAlisation of RelApse risk in autoimmune DISEase Ambitious research project in personalised medicine The million of people affected by autoimmune condition have a reduced quality of life. Focusing on ANCA vasculitis a an exemplar relapsing multi-system autoimmune disease, PARADISE will use patient level data to identify the characteristics, or markers, most often linked to relapse events. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD SYNTHEMA European collaborative project Synthetic generation of hematological data over federated computing framework Under a global lens, the impact of hematological disease is staggering Unfortunately, a is common for rare diseases, both the scarcity and fragmentation of available data prevent researcher from reaching the critical mass required for pushing forward basic and clinical research, and heavily impact health authority capability for effective health planning. Moreover, their underrepresentation in coding system highlight the complexity of tracing patient pathway within healthcare systems, thus limiting the long-term sustainability of existing and new patient registry established at national and European levels. SYNTHEMA aim to establish a cross-border health data hub for rare haematological diseases: a space to develop and validate innovative AI-based technique for clinical data anonymisation and synthetic data generation (SDG). The ultimate ambition is to address the issue around data scarcity and fragmentation to effectively widen the basis for meaningful, GDPR-compliant research in this disease space. As a consortium partner,i~HD support the ethical, legal and regulatory compliance challenge for the development of synthetic data generation using latest AI technology. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD UNICOM EU-funded R&D project Up-scaling the global univocal identification of medicine This innovation action will give a powerful impulse to implementation of ISO IDMP (ID of Medicinal Products) standard in EU Member States drug databases, supporting safe cross-border ePrescription/ eDispensation and effective pharmacovigilance. Once EU-interoperable data on medicine taken by patient become available, further benefit will accrue through better health data for improved clinical decision support, patient empowerment, public health and clinical research. New opportunity will arise for pharma industry, software developers, SMEs providing smart apps and others, thereby fostering their innovation capacity and competitiveness. The project ambition centre on conversion of key regulatory and clinical process to use IDMP. These information value chain must be converted over their full length from data input to data repository to data usage. The project will mainly focus on the implementation of EU and national SPOR (substances, products, organisations, referentials) data bases, including establishing an EU Substance Reference System (EU-SRS). Such information is fundamental to cross-border ePrescription where safe dispensation may require reliable identification of substance in available products. 19 country are represented, including 26 national Drug and eHealth Agencies. Stakeholders are involved through their associations. This project is funded through the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. i~HD lead work package on the delivery of enhanced medicine information to patients, pharmacist and clinicians, it use in pharmacovigilance and in personalised medicine, and the incorporation of IDMP medicine identification standard into healthcare provider and pharmacy system including decision support. Consortium Partners AEMPS, AFMPS, AGES, ARIA, BFARM, BIDMC, CGB, COCIR, Datawizard, EESAM, EHTEL, ELGA, EMPIRICA, FIMEA, FOUND, GNOMON, HALMED, HL7, HPRA, Croation Health Insurance Fund, IDIKA, IDMP1, IEDOH, i~HD, IHE Europe, ILIM, INDRA, INFARMED, KELA, MHRA, NICTIZ, NOMA, REGLOMB, SAS, SEMPA, SPMS, VIDAL, ZINDEX Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Value-Based Health Care European collaborative project In order to explore to what extent current system can deliver the data that would be needed for a more outcomes-based care model, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) ha launched a project together with i~HD to perform an assessment of how a selected sample of European hospital collect data on Heart Failure outcomes. Heart failure is a chronic condition with dramatic consequence for people quality of life that is estimated to affect more than 10 million people in the EU, also leading to around 2% of all health care expenditure. Collecting meaningful data on the health status of heart failure patient is an important step to ensure better quality care, and a a result better quality of life, for these patients. The project will continue to run through 2020-21. How ready are European hospital to evidence their outcomes? Our role is to reflect wide-ranging background expertise about many of the challenge that lie in scaling up value-based health care, but with a special emphasis on clinical engagement issue and on the availability of relevant health data to provide evidence of clinical outcome achieved by health care providers. i~HD will ass the readiness of 10 example hospital EHRs to measure health outcomes. The benchmark for the exercise is ICHOMs standard set for Heart Failure, which represents a global standard for the data that ideally should be collected, including patient-reported outcomes. The objective is to explore how much of the ICHOM standard set is routinely collected today in a sample of hospitals, and draw conclusion on what the gap are and how they could be addressed. How to address the gap to accelerate a transition towards an outcome and value based focus A reference group with representative of patients, clinical experts, hospital management and industry expert is providing advice to the project, including on the scope and deliverables, selection of hospital and what data item to focus on. Supported by address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Community We are building a health data community As people are getting more and more convinced of the , we find that stakeholder are willing to work with us, and together, on developing and adopting good data practices. There are many stakeholder who need to create and make better use of health data. i~HDbrings thesemultiple stakeholder groupstogether in our neutral forum, so that they can learn from each other, share challenges, and work with u and with our network of European expert to develop solution that enable u to scale up the us of health data. We engage and connect to build collaboration and establish trust in the use of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Become an i~HD member i~HD warmly welcome membership from all kind of organisation active in health care and clinical research, and organisation that develop product and service that enable the creation and use of health data. Discover how the reuse of high-quality trustworthy health data can help you reach your goals. As an i~HD member you will get the opportunity to: contribute to i~HDs policy making through an advisory role in our General Assembly vote in our General Assembly, to nominate and elect to the i~HD Executive Board which determines it strategic direction represent and defend your stakeholder group and propose new initiative that are of interest to the further development of i~HDs mission and vision, hence also take an active role in the development of the European health data ecosystem exchange knowledge a a member of our taskforces and committee get a privileged contact with our European expert and thought leader showcase your expertise and gain visibility through our public event and communication channel Special advantage for paying member A costs-only 4-hour workshop organised at your company premises, at any location in Europe. A wide range of health data topic are available, e.g. a customised tutorial on GDPR compliance for data reuse (*) Gain the best insight from our European expert Discounted fee for i~HD conference and service Indirect access to 3500 contact in EU hospital and hospital federation How to apply? Please inform u of your interest by completing our . You can fill in the pdf form digitally or manually. After printing and signing the form, you can mail the scanned document to . Do not hesitate to add more comment in your mail. You can consult our . We are looking forward to welcoming you in our community. Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested in becoming a member? Still looking for answers? Contact our Managing Director . (*) for member paying an annual membership fee of 25000 address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Members Alzheimer Europe AP-HP Assistance Publique Hpitaux de Paris Astra Zeneca AB Where science meet the patient Bioconstat Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Improving people quality of life through innovative and sustainable healthcare Custodix NV We protect privacy Ecrin European Clinical Research Infrastructure network edence Health eHealth IT service for Real World Evidence Empirica Communication and Technology Research EuroRec Promoting the use of high quality Electronic Health Record system (EHRs) Gemelli Fondazione Policlinico universitario A. Gemelli Medical Informatics and Statistics Department of Public Health Hope European Hospital and Healthcare Federation Hospital 12 de Octubre Unidad de Investigacin Clnica y Ensayos Clnicos ICON plc Clinical Research Organisation (CRO) for Drug Development Imperial College Charing Cross Hospital Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust IRCCS Galeazzi I.R.C.C.S INSTITUTO ORTOPEDICO GALEAZZI IRST IRCCS ISTITUTO SCIENTIFICO PER LO STUDIO E LA CURA DEI TUMORI IRST IRCCS Janssen The Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson | Janssen Kings College London One of the world leading research and teaching university based in the heart of London Medaman Medical Data Management MedTech Europe From diagnosis to cure Microsoft Novartis OLV Ziekenhuis Aalst-Asse-Ninove Top in zorg Promptly Making health outcome available RAMIT vzw Research in Advanced Medical Informatics and Telematics Sanofi-Aventis Recherche et Developement A global life science company Smart People Technological ecosystem for health care process digitalization and connection Takeda Better Health, Brighter Future TMF Technologie- und Methodenplattform fur die vernetzte medizinische Forschung Turku University Hospital (Tyks) Hospital District of Southwest Finland University of Bonn University Hospital Erlangen Universitair Ziekenhuis Gent University Hospital Frankfurt Goethe University University Hospital Mnster (UKM) University of Tbingen Vall dHebron BarcelonaHospital Campus Vienna Vaccine Safety Initiative Virgen Macarena University Hospital address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Patient organisation Sharing personal health data will result in better health care for individual patient and for society a a whole New diseases, ageing population and the rising cost of health care provision are putting pressure on our health systems. At the same time, we see promising evolution such a cutting-edge health research, the development of revolutionary technology and innovative techniques, new and more effective treatment and medication. These health innovation are often data-driven. Individual patient can not only benefit from this exciting progress but also contribute to the enhancement of public health How sharing personal health data can benefit patient Discover four major advantages: Health care is becoming more and more complex and specialised. Besides our GP, we are likely to consult one or more hospital clinicians, home care or social care worker and other health professionals, either for personal health issue or for a close relative. Or we may need emergency care in another region of the country or abroad where swift access to our essential health information may be crucial to determine the outcome of the treatment we need. When all of these health professional have access to our up-to-date health data and are aware of the treatment we were prescribed by other member of the care team, they will be able to provide higher-quality and more personalised care. Better coordination will make care provision safer and more efficient a it will make it possible to reduce medical visits, avoid redundant exam and prevent duplicate or even conflicting treatments. With the rise of data-driven health tool such a wearable devices, remote monitoring, mobile health apps and shared electronic health records, people are more closely connected to tracking their own health. Having access to our health data, provides the insight to better manage our health. This understanding will give u a stronger voice interacting with our care team to jointly make the best decision and to define an appropriate care plan taking into account personal priorities. Being an informed partner in our own care will also boost motivation to carefully follow up on medical instruction and adopt the necessary lifestyle changes. Moreover, active patient engagement ha proven to lead to better health outcome and better care experiences. Researchers and clinician need large quantity of health data to understand disease, it causes, it progression over time, the treatment that have been (un)successful. The analysis of health data of million of people help them to forecast health trends, to speed up diagnosis, to discover new and more effective treatments, medicine and medical technologies, to personalise care, to roll out Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) applications. The health data susceptible to boost health research ha often been routinely collected in electronic health record kept by clinicians, but also in population registries, and more recently through mobile health trackers, bio sensors, etc. Conversely, patient may be invited to participate in clinical trial for researcher to gather very targeted health data, opening opportunity for patient to get acces tothe newest medical advancements. Hospitals and other health care provider are facing the ever harder challenge of delivering high-quality but cost-effective service in an increasingly complex health care environment. Health authority and funders are forced to ensure sustainable, future proof care strategies, carefully balancing budget against increasing demands. The analysis of great quantity of health data can help health care provider to improve quality and safety, efficiency and performance, planning and care pathway optimisation. Public health decision maker can rely on big data analysis to produce evidence for policy and resource planning, for public health surveillance and strategy. How health privacy is protected People may worry about the privacy and security of their sensitive health information. How can access to personal health data be limited to authorised persons? What measure do health data user take to safeguard their ICT infrastructure against cyberattacks? Will personal data not be used for other purposes? There are legal, organisational and technical precaution to protect the identity of individual when data is used, such a the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), ethical code of conduct, rule for anonymizing data, access controls, audit trail etc. As it is our ambition to foster legitimate trust in data sharing, we have developed expertise to assist all stakeholder to comply with regulatory requirement and ethical standards. Be part of our neutral health data community Are you interested in learning more about the benefit of sharing health data? Do you want to get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data? Testimonials The patient voice on the importance of innovation through health data Karl Wouter medinet.tv 1 July 2020 Many patient are eager to share their health data to help speed up the development of new treatment if this can be done in a trustworthy way. Mitchell Silva Patient advocate, EUPATI 21 September 2017 Patient engagement in clinical research: transparency is key. Patients show a lot ofwillingness and interest but there is always the aspect of trust. Mary Baker Past President of the European Brain Council 9 March 2016 A better understanding of disease and new treatment is of critical importance to society. Patients and healthy citizen alike should support better us of their health data. Robert Johnstone A patient 9 March 2016 I fully support better use of health data for research, to discover new treatment and other form of health care, provided that assurance can be given that the data are well protected and governed. Petra Wilson Managing Director of Health Connect Partners 9 March 2016 Patients need to be better informed about their health data and in decision being made about their health and care. Patients lack of knowledge limit the value we can all obtain from health data. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health care provider Be well equipped for an innovative future Health care provider are facing ever greater challenges. Judicious use of health data reinforces you to face our increasingly complex health and care environment. Be ready for new opportunity Deliver safe, personalised and evidence-based care Optimise care coordination and care pathway Embrace and evidence better health outcome and value-based health care Participate in clinical study so a to accelerate new medical advance and open up new revenue stream Create trust in larger network Be confident and create confidence when exchanging health data with stakeholder and partner Be reassured when receiving and relying on health data from a diversity of medical technology device Prepare your organisation for demand to demonstrate your privacy-compliant data handling The privacy-compliant use of high-quality and trustworthy health data and system is crucial to embrace these opportunity Health care providers: How solid is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident of the quality of your health data Get the right insight Learning from the health data that is stored in your patient EHRs is the foundation for clinical, operational and strategic decision-making. The quality of your decision-making is linked to the quality of your health data.However, the quality of this data is not always what you might expect. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Benchmark your dataset for specific reuse purpose Gain the confidence of research company You want to scale up your opportunity to participate in clinical research so a to offer your patient access to innovative medical advance and to enable your clinician to stay at the top of their game. However, real-world health data is often not fit for purpose. You will be more eligible to participate in clinical trial if pharmaceutical and other research company are reassured that your patient population fit their needs. We verify that your data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health policy maker & funders Providing and promoting better health through judicious health data use Health system across Europe are facing huge challenge and need to adapt rapidly in order to remain sustainable whilst improving quality, by developing future proof care and research strategies, optimising the efficient use of resources. The analysis of great quantity of health data can produce evidence for policy, strategy and resource planning. Data-driven insight are crucial to support the current and future health and research challenge and enhance public health. The return of health care funding can be optimised through the scaled-up, judicious use of health data. Governing body should be able to rely on high-quality health data to drive more effective care provided by the health care provider under their supervision. Building public trust based on evidence Health policy maker & funders: How to put health data to good use? To guarantee the best us of health data, you need to be confident of Encourage health care user to improve and demonstrate their data quality For better insight and decision making Several study have demonstrated that health data is not always of a good enough quality or fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data is traditionally captured by healthcare provider and provider organisations, but increasingly also by medical devices, sensor and health apps directly by patients. Encouraging these organisation and supplier to meet data quality assurance criterion will ensure you have reliable evidence to develop better and more efficient health care service and prevention programmes. We provide instruments, insight and strategy to know, enhance and benchmark data quality Create reassurance in the way health data is used Promote GDPR understanding and adherence Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Yet, it is crucial to enhancing health care and boosting research. Health data use is therefore tightly governed. The privacy regulation need to be well understood and carefully applied. One way to create assurance is to disseminate knowledge and promote adherence to the GDPR. We organise health-data-focused GDPR tutorial Endorse privacy-compliant health ICT system Promote safe digitisation of health care Digital health system now connect to an increasing number of other system and platforms. Every data custodian need to be confident about what they connect to and every patient need to be able to trust their data is safe within those systems. Having the privacy, ethics, security and data protection process of health ICT system assessed, will contribute to a trusted health data system. We ass the privacy, ethics, security and data protection process of health ICT systems. Validate digital health system that demonstrate their reliable functional operation Selection of criterion and assessment The requirement of state-of-the-art health software are multiplying and becoming more and more complex. Users (both organisation and citizens),commissioners and health authority want guarantee that health software operates in accordance with the relevant functional criteria. i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Our programme cover the functional testing of health software Have confidence in the validity of quality label i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by issuing different type of quality labels. We bring over 30 year of learning and expertise in our quality labels. Our team of auditor have clinical, technical, academic and legal background and have substantial expertise in developing quality seals,backed by a robust assessment methodology and criteria. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Pharma & life science Improve your access to reliable health data so a to boost research Pharmaceutical company and the life science industry rely on both research data and real-world data to conduct ground-breaking health care research and to bring innovation to a higher level. Improve your access to reliable real-world data You want to raise awareness of the importance of re-using health data. You want to rely on real-world health data that meet the criterion you have defined and that is fit for your research purposes. Create trust You want to produce evidence that you are handling high-quality health data in a privacy-compliant way. You want to show accountability for the outcome of your research. The privacy-compliant use of high-quality and trustworthy health data and system is crucial to advance research Pharma and life sciences: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident of the quality of your research data A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is the very core of your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your company daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to real-world data Increased research eligibility for health data provider You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your research objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data i~HDs involvement in IMI project i~HD play a strong role in national and international R&D project and European-wide collaborative initiatives. We are collaborating with many pharma company through several IMI projects. Click on the logo to learn more about our involvement in each of these projects. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Academia and research center Help to establish success condition for scaling up health data research Academia and research center interact and collaborate with the wide range of health data stakeholders. Whether the aim is to participate in clinical research, to build and share knowledge, to respond to local and nation-wide health challenge or to prevent sickness and disease, access to and use of high-quality and trustworthy health data is usually key to the successful implementation of their projects. Improve your access to reliable real-world data You want to raise awareness of the importance of re-using health data. You want to connect with hospitals, GPs and other data source to find research collaboration opportunities. You want to rely on real-world health data that meet the criterion you have defined and that is fit for your research purposes. Create societal trust You want to help establish success condition and societal trust to scale up investment in big data research. You want to produce evidence that you are handling high-quality health data in a privacy-compliant way. You want to show accountability for the outcome of your research. Facilitate health data re-use and value evidence gathering for more and better research Academia and research centers: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident of the quality of your research data A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is the very core of your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your company daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to real-world data Increased research eligibility for health data provider You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your research objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Make sure data from different source can be connected educate stakeholder about the importance of standard Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a connected health data ecosystem Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health ICT industry Demonstrate the trustworthiness of your digital health system The soaring use of health data is reflected in the growing adoption of digital health system and applications, from Electronic Health Records (EHRs) used by health care provider & organisation to fitness and health apps readily accessible for all citizens. The need to capture and manage health data in trustworthy way ha forced the health ict industry to meet complex and high requirements. Health authority rely on data-driven insight to design future proof health care strategies. In addition, they start endorsing mobile health apps, and even provide for reimbursement, for apps that meet the highest requirements. Health care provider rely on EHR data to deliver evidence-based care and optimise care coordination. EHR system need to allow for proper analysis while safeguarding patient privacy. Researchers and clinician want to conduct large-scale data analysis to speed up health innovations. Seamless exchanging or connecting and quality of data are crucial requirements. Patients and citizen are more and more convinced of the added value of digital health, and willing to embrace this, provided data protection and smooth operation are ensured. Prove the compliance of your software in the field of functional operation quality of data handling and flow data privacy (e.g. GDPR) and ethic Health ICT industry: How to gain the trust of your partners? Be confident and convince that your health ICT system Demonstrate the smooth functional operation of your digital system Stay on top of the fast-changing requirement The requirement of state-of-the-art health software are multiplying and becoming more and more complex. Users (both organisation and citizens),commissioners and health authority want guarantee that your software operates in accordance with the relevant functional criteria. i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Our programme cover the functional testing of health software Make sure the data in your system can be linked and connected Facilitate seamless sharing Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a connected health data ecosystem Ensure adequate GDPR knowledge in your organisation Increase the efficiency of your development process Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is therefore tightly governed. Your digital health system ha to be designed with data privacy and protection in mind. We can help educate your developer and designer to understand and integrate the GDPR privacy regulation in your software packages. We organise customised tutorial a well a open course in the field of GDPR Safeguard privacy when sharing and exchanging health data Promote safe digitisation of health care Every user of your software need to be able to trust their personal health data is safely protected. In addition, in a collaborative health ecosystem, every data custodian need to be confident about the data they connect to. IDHIS, i~HDs Information Governance Certification Programme, audit the conformity of data flow in health ICT system against a unique set of international criterion relating to privacy, ethics, security and data protection. Having your health ICT system assessed, will contribute to a trusted health data system. We ass the privacy, ethics, security and data protection process of health ICT system Have confidence in the validity of our quality label i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by issuing different type of quality labels. We bring over 30 year of learning and expertise in our quality labels. Our team of auditor have clinical, technical, academic and legal background and have substantial expertise in developing quality seals, backed by a robust assessment methodology and criteria. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health and data strategy organisation Create trustworthy health intelligence to lead the way Health care system and organisation are constantly balancing exciting opportunity such a the introduction of new technology and medicines, the development of A.I. algorithm and more personalised care against the threat of soaring health care expenditure and call for more accountability, to name just a few. Health data is often at the heart of operational, strategic and clinical insights, business intelligence and data warehouse service that support health innovation, provided it meet strict quality and privacy requirements. Enhancing health care through health data The analysis of great quantity of health data can produce evidence for policy, strategy and resource planning, and clinical innovations. The reliability of data-driven insight depends on the quality of the health data under analysis, the reliability of the digital health system used and the trustworthy approach applied by data workers. Create trust You want to raise awareness and knowledge, within and outside of your organisation, of the importance to re-use health data, and produce evidence you do so in trustworthy ways. You need to access and combine data from several sources. It is essential that you be confident and create confidence when exchanging health data with stakeholder and partner or when relying on data from a diversity of medical technology devices. Demonstrate accountability of your health data outcome Health and data strategy organisations: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident you produce reliable insight A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is a major asset to your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your organisation daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to reliable real-world data Combine and collate health data You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Data-driven industry Propelling forward the health data movement Health data is driving innovation. The growing awareness, acceptance and eagerness for stepping up the us of health data doe require industry player to provide evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of their health data handling. Give yourself the tool to confirm your legitimate position in the health data ecosystem. Be ready for new opportunity Be prepared for challenging evolution and requirement such a the rise of mHealth and A.I., the increasing need for connecting digital health systems, escalating demand by customer and regulator Enhance your reputation in an expanding market by showing accountability for the outcome of your activity Optimise your efficiency by improving the quality of your internal process Create trust Be confident and create confidence when exchanging health data with stakeholder and partner Be reassured when receiving and relying on health data from a diversity of medical technology device Prepare your organisation for demand to demonstrate your privacy-compliant data handling Promote the benefit from interoperable health solution Data-driven industry: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident you produce reliable data A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is the very core of your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your company daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to reliable real-world data Combine and collate health data You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Make sure data from different source can be connected Facilitate seamless sharing Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a connected health data ecosystem Comply with the relevant functional criterion Stay on top of the fast-changing requirement The requirement of state-of-the-art health software are multiplying and becoming more and more complex. Users (both organisation and citizens),commissioners and health authority want guarantee that health software operates in accordance with the relevant functional criteria. i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Our programme cover the functional testing of health software Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Standards & certification organisation Connecting and certifying health data expertise Standards have become crucial guideline in the light of the spectacular increase of health data re-use and connectivity requirements. In addition, health data being very personal and sensitive information, both individual and company demand to get objective insight in the quality level of a product, service or process they consider engaging with. Set minimum requirement for good health data or system quality Assess and reward performance Lead the way to improvement strategy Promote connectivity and collaboration Health data standard and assessment create clarity, trust and connection Standards and certification organisations: How to strengthen your focus on health data? Discover howi~HD is promoting the use of standard and certificate in the health ecosystem We facilitate seamless sharing Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a digitally connected health ecosystem We define, validate and select relevant criterion We help organisation define relevant criterion in the field of Data quality: for benchmarking or improvement purpose Information governance: We have developed a unique set of international ISO-accredited(*) criterion relating to privacy, ethics, security and data protection in health ict system The functional operation of digital health systems: We have access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. (*) i~HD is in the final stage of preparation to apply for an ISO accreditation We endorse quality and trustworthiness There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. Within our programme we have developed the following type of quality labels, which we are further expanding: i~HD Certificates i~HD Seals i~HD Qualifications We award seal and certificate We are a neutral, European, not-for-profit institute i~HD is a neutral, not-for-profit institute with one focal point: the trustworthy use of health data. We have substantial expertise in developing quality seals, backed by a robust assessment methodology and criteria. Our experienced team of auditor posse an array of complementary skill and clinical, technical, academic and legal expertise Connection, collaboration, co-creation We bring health data stakeholder together to showcase the value of data re-use, to boost collaboration, to help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where people can showcase their expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Knowledge center Publications Read papers, article and annual report produced by our team PRESENTATIONS Browse through some presentation we gave at own or external conference interview Watch interview with thought leader and i~HD team member & collaborator case study Discover real-world example of how health data ha led to concrete patient benefit course Take part in our front-runner educational program for professional aiming to create and use high-quality health data. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Publications Reports presenting the finding of multi-stakeholder round table consultation developed and convened by and i~HD White paper developed in collaboration with Annual report Articles since 2020 . , , (2023). HealthManagement.org Volume 23, Issue 1 . Prodan A, Deimel L, Ahlqvist J, Birov S, Thiel Rm Toivanen M, Kolitsi Z and Kalra D (2022), Front. Med. 9:854665. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2022.854665 . , , Carlos Saez, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Miguel-Angel Mayer, Juan M. Garcia-Gomez, Marta Dur Hernndez, , (2021), MedRxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.02.04.21250990 , Christian Hay, Malin Fladvad, Miriam C. J. M. Sturkenboom, Robert T. Chen (2021), Vaccine, Volume 39, Issue 2, 8 January 2021, Pages 176-179 . , Christian Hay, Malin Fladvad, Robert T. Chen (2021). HealthManagement.org Volume 21, Issue 1 (2020). Journal of the International Society for Telemedicine and EHealth, 8, e16 (1-5). https://doi.org/10.29086/JISfTeH.8.e16 . , , , Veerle De Wispelaere, , , , (2020). HealthManagement.org Volume 20, Issue 1 . (2020). The Innovation Platform Issue 1 address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Presentations i~HD colleague take part in various engagement a part of our commitment to multi-stakeholder effort in promoting, developing and sharing good practices, tool and quality assessment to maximise the value of health data. DateEventi~HD SpeakerTopicLocationAttachment 22/06/2023"DigiHealthDay Workshop"Dipak KalraThe case for a European Health Data SpaceVirtual 2/06/2023"Global Health Special 6"Dipak KalraVideo cast on the European Health Data SpaceVirtual 23/05/2023"Medical Informatics Europe 2023"Dipak KalraKeynote: Caring through data: scaling up the opportunity to learn how we can improve health and careGothenburg, Sweden 23/05/2023"Medical Informatics Europe 2023 - AI Workshop"Dipak KalraHow Can We Mobilise Computable Biomedical Knowledge for Learning Health Systems in Europe? Valuable and responsible AIGothenburg, Sweden 20/04/2023"Adult Immunization Board Technical Meeting"Dipak KalraEuropean Health Data Space (EHDS): EU health data collection and data safety: impact on the estimation of burden of VPIsAntwerp, Belgium 23/03/2023"HealthTech Summit"Dipak KalraAccelerating the success of digital healthLeuven, Belgium 7/03/2023"European Alliance for Persinalised Medicine Expert Panel"Dipak KalraFraming the discussion with stakeholder for Access, competitive and innovation in the context of Access to healthcare a well a EU Industrial policyVirtual 9/02/2022"Digital Innovation Insights - Digital Health Annual Conference"Dipak KalraThe health data ecosystem and it contribution to healthcare transformation, through the EHDS RegulationVirtual 25/01/2023"Digital Health Nordic 2023"Dipak KalraOne-on-one discussion on the European Health Data SpaceVirtual 20/06/2022"The Future of Health Data in the EU" i~HD and MetaMedica Webinar 1Christophe MaesFrom burden 2 benefitVirtual 24/06/2022University of Toronto Masters in Health Informatics lectureNathan LeaData governance in Europe: putting law into actionVirtual 20/06/2022"The Future of Health Data in the EU" i~HD and MetaMedica Webinar 1Heidi MertesWhy should we care about the European health data space regulation?Virtual 20/06/2022"The Future of Health Data in the EU" i~HD and MetaMedica Webinar 1Mahsa ShabaniTowards a more complex regulatory frameworkVirtual 20/06/2022"The Future of Health Data in the EU" i~HD and MetaMedica Webinar 1Nathan LeaLet's regulate and innovate! Putting law into actionVirtual 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopJens Declercki~HD Data Quality CurriculumBrussels, Belgium 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopChristophe MaesData privacy in the age of digital health: From burden 2 benefitBrussels, Belgium 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopDiogo Nogueira Leite (University of Porto)Economics of digital healthBrussels, Belgium 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopRicardo Joo Cruz Correia (University of Porto)Data, interoperability and why they matter?Brussels, Belgium 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopPascal Coorevits (UGent)How can we achieve high quality data related to medical technologies?Brussels, Belgium 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopDipak KalraWhy do we need to invest in data quality?Brussels, Belgium 17/05/2022Breakfast Meeting: Health Data Quality WorkshopMichael Strbin (Digital Health MedTech Europe)Health data, the opportunity for the MedTech companiesBrussels, Belgium 22/04/2022Eighth European Conference on Health LawChristophe MaesEU's first information governance and data privacy for healthcare ICT system certificationGhent, Belgium 22/04/2022Eighth European Conference on Health LawDipak KalraKeynote speech: Pressure point between two Teutonic plates: GDPR and big health data researchGhent, Belgium 21/04/2022SCOPE Europe 2022Dipak KalraKeynote presentation: Harnessing the Power of Real-World Data for Clinical Research: European InitiativesVirtual 21/04/2022Eighth European Conference on Health LawJens DeclerckDo we need a legal framework to improve the quality of health data?Ghent, Belgium 21/04/2022Eighth European Conference on Health LawMaria ChristofidouSecondary use of health data in research: the complexity of EU governanceGhent, Belgium 03/04/2022International Patient ConferenceNathan LeaIntegrating patient reported outcome (PRO's) into registriesVirtual 14/12/2021WHO EURO Digital Health ConferenceDipak KalraPanel speaker: European response to noncommunicable disease Virtual 14/12/2021EFGCP Annual Conference Dipak KalraVirtual 8/12/2021Beyond the loneliness towards the wholeDipak KalraMaximising the value of health dataVirtual 7/12/2021NODE.Health Digital Medicine ConferenceDipak KalraPanel speaker: The European mHealth Hub: ensuring researcher and provider have the quality of data they needVirtual 7/12/2021MedFIT DigitalDipak KalraPanel speaker: Breaking silos: How to incentive interoperability in MedTech and connected health?Virtual 30/11/2021EHTEL Thought Leadership SymposiumDipak KalraHow can health service enable person-centric health data sharingVirtual 19/11/2021ESCAIDE 2021 Digital health opportunity for Public Health: how far from reality? Dipak KalraTrustworthy digital health dataVirtual 9/11/2021ConV2XDipak KalraThe European Health Data Space and other health data space Virtual 8/11/2021ICHOM Global CongressDipak KalraPanel speaker: How benchmarking is fundamental to improving healthcare Virtual 4/11/2021Days of LawDipak KalraWhy do we need health informatics standards?Virtual 2/11/2021ODI Summit breakfast panelDipak KalraVirtual 26/10/2021European Patients Forum Annual CongressDipak KalraPanel chair: Patients' health data sharing: perspectives, risk and key concept Virtual 22/10/2021University of Hasselt: Inauguration of the Data Science InstituteDipak KalraAccelerating research through the greater use of big health dataVirtual 14/10/2021MedCity: Advances in Clinical TrialsNadir Ammour, Mats Sundgren, Dipak KalraFrom Electronic Health Records to Electronic Data Capture systemsVirtual 20/10/2021HLTH 2021Dipak KalraCalls to action on health data ecosystemsVirtual 7/10/2021Farma Forum - 10th Value of Innovation conference Dipak KalraHow health data is driving innovationVirtual 28/9/2021European Health Forum GasteinDipak KalraPanel speaker: Hey Mary, by the way, thank you for your data Virtual 24/9/2021Middle East HealthTech Innovation Summit Dipak KalraPanel chair: How to Optimise the Adoption of TeleMedicine a a Mechanism to Improve Resilience? Virtual 17/9/2021European Society for Medical OncologyDipak KalraPanel speaker, run by the European Alliance for Personalised MedicineVirtual 1/9/2021Slovenian Ministry event on Data space and the digital transformation of healthcareDipak KalraPanel speaker: The secondary use of health dataVirtual 20/7/2021IADIS eHealth 2021Dipak KalraAccelerating Innovation through Health DataVirtual 8/7/2021IEEE SA Panel at the UN High Level Political Forum on Sustainable DevelopmentDipak KalraPanel speakerVirtual 21/6/2021WFIPP World Continence WeekDipak KalraMaking sure that we learn from our health data, to optimise care and accelerate researchVirtual 10/6/2021EFPIA & MedTech Europe event on Unlocking the power of health data: the promise of the European Health Data SpaceDipak KalraPanel speaker: The potential of health data Virtual 2/6/2021Qatar Virtual Executive BoardroomDipak KalraPanel speaker: Patient Experience & HealthTech Transformation VoicesVirtual 1/6/2021Lisbon eHealth SummitDipak KalraDigital Health - empowering patients, enriching researchVirtual 27/5/2021Regional Conference on eHealth - Czech Republic, Romania & SlovakiaDipak KalraData Saves LivesVirtual 27/5/2021All.Can Global SummitDipak KalraPanel speaker: Real-World DataVirtual 6/5/2021Future Digital Health SummitDipak KalraThe opportunity from mHealth dataVirtual 28/4/2021IEEE Privacy, Ethics and Trust in Connected HealthcareDipak KalraPanel speakerVirtual 26/4/2021European Parkinson's Disease AssociationDipak KalraThe potential of health data for patientsVirtual 26/4/2021CRAACO 2021Dipak KalraPanel speaker: Improving EHR Data to Meet Regulatory Standards in Clinical TrialsVirtual 23/4/2021FLAMES Annual Meeting 2021Dipak KalraData Sharing - Good practicesVirtual 22/4/2021Cortina Digital ForumDipak KalraPanel speaker: Calls to action for health data ecosystemsVirtual 31/3/2021ISPOR Annual ConferenceDipak KalraPanel speaker: How novel collaboration and new player are shaping the HEOR landscapeVirtual 18/3/2021Humanity Rising - linking health and economyDipak KalraWe need to make more use of health data!Virtual 3/2/2021Sitra - Quest for data-driven and fair health solutionsDipak KalraA recipe for trustworthy digital healthVirtual address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Interviews Overview, in progress TitleIntervieweeYearEvent Thomas Alvin2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Mary Baker, Past President of the European Brain Council2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Pablo Serrano Balazote, Director de Planificacin, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Juan Fuertes, Board Member of the European Patients Forum2017 i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Daniel Furby, Foresight International Policy and Regulatory Advisers (FPIRA)2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Augustn Gmez de la Cmara, Hospital 12 de Octubre Research Institute2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Simon Lovestone, Professor of Translational Neuroscience, University of Oxford, UK2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Ain Aaviksoo, Deputy Secretary General for E-services and Innovation, Ministry of Social Affairs, Estonia2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Morten Kildal, Lead for value-based healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Arturo Romero Gutirrez, Spanish Ministry of Health Social Services and Equality2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Mitchell Silva, Patient advocate, EUPATI, Belgium 2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid Mary Baker, Past President of the European Brain Council2017i~HD & EMIF joint conference - Madrid address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD How is health data being used to benefit society? The analysis of health data from large number of patient is a vital resource to help to discover knowledge that can be used to improve health, health care and research. Sources of health data There are many different kind of data that are useful for discovering new knowledge, such as: electronic health record of patient within hospital and general practice information entered by patient and healthy people using mobile application data from other public services, like transport, climate and pollution. Users of health data This data analysis, under strict data protection rules, and the development of new knowledge is undertaken by a wide range of public body and by industry, including: university and research centre public health agency regulatory authority pharmaceutical company medical device manufacturers. Transparency i~HD is encouraging these organisation to publish the result of their analyses, and to make clear how they have used data when developing a new medicine or device or software product, so the public can see the value of how their data have been used. Alongside this, we are encouraging these organisation to explain how they have protected the data whilst undertaking their analysis. Discover real-world example It is often helpful to understand the many possible us of data through examples. We have collected together case study that illustrate different us of data, for different disease areas, by different organisation and to discover knowledge that lead to different kind of benefit. We are building up a library of these case studies, by contacting many organisation across Europe so that we can present brief summary and link to their case study details. We are particularly grateful to , , and for providing case study for our library. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Mission and vision The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is a European, not-for-profit organisation facilitating the optimal us of health data through a series of complementary activities. OUR VISION We strive for a world in which multiple stakeholder collaborate in the trustworthy use of high-quality health data to continuously improve care and accelerate research. We are working to realise this ambitious challenge through leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation. That is why we have taken the form of a neutral membership-based organisation that strives to unite all health data stakeholder to share challenges, solution and to learn from each other. Our stakeholder include: OUR misSION We promote, develop and share good practices, tool and quality assessment to maximise community value from health data for innovation in health, care and research. In order to catalyse change and innovation within the health ecosystem: we work across these stakeholder through education and event to promote collaboration we play a strong role in national and international R&D project and European-wide collaborative initiative we develop practical method and solution we develop international quality certificates, seal and labels. Our experience in European project Via our founding members, i~HD can boast 0 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN EU PROJECTS 0 R&D PROJECTS WE HAVE BEEN A PARTNER IN 0 CURRENT EU PROJECTS 0 EXPERTS CONTRIBUTING TO OUR NETWORK 0 RECENT EVENTS WE HAVE RUN OR PARTNERED address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD i~HD join coalition in raising concern on draft European Health Data Space regulation The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) is in unison with the 35-member strong coalition of health stakeholder organisation in highlighting some concern on the proposed European Health Data Space (EHDS) regulation. The coalition belief that the regulation ha the potential to harness the benefit of the digital age for better health outcomes. However, the group is also raising ten fundamental issue that have not been addressed in the lead-up to the negotiation between the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission. The coalition belief that the regulation ha the potential to harness the benefit of the digital age for better health outcomes. However, the group is also raising ten fundamental issue that have not been addressed in the lead-up to the negotiation between the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission. These ten issue are: The EHDS must set forth clearer and more coherent definition (e.g. on electronic health data, data holder, electronic health record system) The EHDS must clarify it interaction with other applicable legal framework (including GDPR, Data Governance Act, Data Act, Medical Devices Regulation) The EHDS must harmonise rules, reduce legal fragmentation and ensure that the regulation can be implemented consistently across the EU The EHDS must specify the scope of electronic health data category for secondary use. The EHDS should avoid any opt-in and only incorporate an opt-out mechanism a long a it doe not lead to inconsistent implementation, increased health data disparity and excessive administrative burdens. The relevant legal base under the GDPR should be leveraged and applied in a harmonised way across Member States The EHDS should safeguard and incentivise health research and innovation activity that are performed in line with the existing regulatory framework The EHDS should leverage existing health data infrastructures, set up by health institution and stakeholders, to allow continuity and build on existing expertise The EHDS should avoid excessive data localisation and international health data transfer restriction that go beyond the requirement of the GDPRs framework The EHDS should involve all relevant health stakeholder from the outset of the implementation process and include them in it governance at both EU and Member State level The EHDS must provide adequate resource and incentive to facilitate it successful implementation. It should be accompanied by policy promoting digital health skill and tool for health professionals, patient and citizen For month now, i~HD ha consistently been involved in different engagement and symposium together with the coalition to discus the EHDS proposal. In 2022, the organisation of the EHDS through Towards European Health Data Space or TEHDAS. Later that year, i~HD also co-signed a by the same coalition. Last year, EHDS wa one of the . address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Big Data for Health & Care: The Arisal of Data Spaces The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) and the University of Hasselt (UHasselt) are co-organising a one-day symposium called Big Data for Health & Care: The Arisal of Data Spaces. WHEN: 23 April 2024WHERE: Corda Campus, Hasselt, Belgium With this symposium, we aspire to facilitate an in-depth exploration of data space and research infrastructures, elucidate challenge and best practice for large-scale projects, and engage in a panel debate on the feasibility of implementing and integrating various data space at different levels, all underpinning the advancement of healthcare data sharing and research. The symposium is tailored for health data enthusiast from Belgium and neighboring countries. While expecting diverse attendees, both beginner and experts, we are aiming for accessibility without compromising depth. The event plan to highlight different Belgian data space and to delve into profound discussion during panel debates, exploring complex topic like challenge and future perspective in health data sharing and analysis. As i~HD will co-moderate the event, the bridge towards Europe is guaranteed. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Building Trust in Health Data i~HD Annual Conference 2023 Joint Global Hybrid Summit 2023 Building Trust in Health Data Together with the chairs, speaker and participants, a step forward ha been made in building trust in the use and re-use of health data during the i~HD Annual conference in Ghent on 30/11 01/12. i~HD also express a huge thank-you to the co-organisers, the City of Ghent, sponsor and strategic partner for their support in making this event a major success. POST-CONFERENCE REPORT The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) held it annual conference in it birthplace Ghent, Belgium on Thursday 30th November and Friday 1st December this year. We were pleased to welcome over 200 people in person and approximately 100 people online participating in this event. Conference Quick Facts 13 Keynote speaker Thought-leaders and decision-makers from high-level institution such a the World Health Organisation, the European Commission and the Belgian Federal Government 80 speaker Experts representing various stakeholder group and interest in the healthcare sector 5 Plenary Sessions and 12 Parallel Sessions Covering a wide array of topic including trustworthy artificial intelligence in healthcare, patient in the driving seat, health data quality education and labels, the European Health Data Space and others 300+ On-site and online participant Coming from 27 country from Europe, Africa, Asia, North America and South America Organising partner Keynote speaker Dr. Emmanuel Bacry Chief Scientific Officer, French Health Data Hub Sofie Bracke Alderwoman for Economy, Trade, Sports and Ports, City of Ghent Frank Callewaert Technology Officer, Microsoft Belgium, Luxembourg & European Union Institutions Magda Chlebus Executive Director Science Policy and Regulatory Affairs, European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Prof. Dipak Kalra President, i~HD Dr. Steve MacFeely Director of Data and Analytics, WHO Dr. Mavis Machirori Senior Researcher, Ada Lovelace Institute Dr. Andrzej Ry Principal Scientific Adviser, DG SANTE, European Commission Dr. Bernardo Sousa-Pinto Assistant Professor, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto Anna Studman Senior Researcher, Ada Lovelace Institute Anca Toma Executive Director, European Patients Forum Dr. Frank Vandenbroucke Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Belgian Federal Government Kristof Vanfraechem Founder and CEO, Data for Patients Making a comeback in i~HD conference is Joining the Dots where European funded project tackling health data challenge will be brought together. Use cases, insights, success and challenge will once again be front-and-centre a expert lead the sessions. Strategic partner Sponsors Silver Bronze Digital Health and Data Week Sponsors Health data ha proven to be a crucial enabler in the development of innovative health, care and research solutions. This process wa facilitated by new digital way for collecting, storing, exchanging, and analysing health data, meaning it can be reused not just for a second time but even more, not only by the person who collected the information but also by other clinicians, researcher and health authorities. The benefit of secondary use of health data have been widely discussed and acknowledged/recognised and yet, the main challenge remains on how we can create trust in the health ecosystem for the reuse of this health data. Coming fresh from the success of our last conference in 2022 , i~HD is announcing it Annual Conference 2023. The emphasis of the conference in 2022 wa to demonstrate the importance of Data Quality, an important condition for the trustworthy use and re-use of health data. Aside from taking off from the key point discussed during that conference, the 2023 conference will provide participant with a broader scope for enabling trust in the secondary use of health data. It is great to have and use and reuse health data, but what do we need so that all stakeholder can also trust the reuse of health data? i~HD will present it holistic view showing all important health data challenge to be solved in order to trustworthy use and reuse of high-quality data to continuously improve care and accelerate research. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Quality Labels: Certificates, Seals & Qualifications You&nbspare&nbsphere: i-HD Quality Labels: Certificates-Seals-Qualifications The i~HD Quality Labels endorse you to showcase your quality and your trustworthiness The re-use of health data ha become crucial to enhance health and speed up research, creating a myriad of societal benefits. But along with this come the challenge for organisation to prove the quality and trustworthiness of their health data handling, at the level of ICT systems, organisations, people and data itself. Producing evidence to convince i~HD quality label for health data handling Within our programme we have developed the following type of quality labels, which we are further expanding: i~HD Certificates i~HD certificate prove, guarantee and assure that the assessed health data product, process or service is conform with the pre-defined and accredited standard. i~HD Seals i~HD seal prove, guarantee and assure that the assessed health data product, process or service complies with the (self-)defined assessment objective and scope. i~HD Qualifications i~HD qualification prove, guarantee and assure that a participant ha successfully followed and/or passed an i~HD course or tutorial. Benefits of obtaining an i~HD quality label An i~HD quality label will allow your organisation to: demonstrate the conformity of your products, services, organisational process and practice with specified requirement outlined in standardised scheme based on validated criteria. enhance your reputation with users, regulators, industry and all other interested stakeholder and boost your customer satisfaction facilitate trade, market access, fair competition and consumer acceptance at a national and international level and in an expanding health system landscape improve the quality of the internal process Types of quality label i~HD currently hand out the following quality labels: IG 1/2020 Certificate Organisations that successfully pas the conformity assessment with the i~HD Information Governance Certification Programme standard IG 1/2020 will be awarded the IG 1/2020 Certificate. This certificate assures that the processes, services, tool and practice of the health ICT system and it organisation meet the validated criterion relating to accountability, audit readiness, data processing, corrective action capability, documentary compliance, privacy, ethics, security, data protection & GDPR compliance. Data Quality Champion Seal The outcome of the improvement assessment is the i~HD Data Quality Champion Seal. Through our Data Quality Champion Programme, we assist you in better understanding your data and subsequently implementing customised and future-proof process integrated in your company daily routines. Data Quality Benchmarking Seal The outcome of the Data Quality Benchmarking assessment is the Data Quality Benchmarking Seal. Through our Data Quality Benchmark Programme, we can perform a formal benchmarking of your dataset against quality criterion that are defined by an (external) stakeholder initiative. We can also ass the fitness of your data for a given purpose. GDPR Qualification We will shortly provide more information on our GDPR training (spring 2021) Interested?Get in touch! Are you interested to learn more about our quality labels? Contact our Managing Director for a free intake meeting. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD We convince Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscle Why use and re-use health data? Health data ha proved to be a crucial enabler in the development of innovative health, care and research solutions. This process wa facilitated by new digital way for collecting, storing, exchanging and analysing health data, meaning it can be re-used a second time, and more, not only by the person who collected the information but also by other clinicians, researcher and health authorities. Weneed to learn more from health data How do disease and treatment interact? Which treatment give the best results? How do we improve care pathways? Is this new medicine safe? Who should we screen for which diseases? How are new virus transmitted, treated? Health data interplay in several fields, not only providing for the safe continuity of care to the individual patient, but also creating insight for optimizing the effectiveness of health system and boosting research. Individual level health data Used for individual health status monitoring personalised medicine safe continuity of care by multi-disciplinary team of health and care professional Population level health data Re-used for quality and safety management improved care outcome health care provider performance management & planning public health surveillance & strategy Big health data Re-used for epidemiology disease understanding, prevention and treatment innovations: new medicine & technologies, AI development Sources of health data When hearing about health data, most people think of the medical information that is introduced in their health record during visit to their GP or hospital. But there is more. Health data registration is all around and rapidly growing: through remote monitoring device prescribed by health professional over personal tracking device such a fitness apps or dietary monitoring to major national health databases. Population registries/ clinical trial database Mobile health tracker Care pathway / decision support Environmental data Clinical application Bio sensor Genomic data Trustworthy use and re-use of high-quality health data The exponential growth of health data will allow for life-saving breakthrough if we manage to make good (re-)use of good data. Demonstrated health improvement through using data in one health care system (*) 0 decrease in heart disease death 0 decrease in HIV death 0 decrease in septicaemia death 0 decrease in pressure ulcer Reliable re-use of data Real-world health data is usually captured and structured for it primary objective of providing safe and personalised care to each individual patient. It need to be fit for the intended re-use purposes! Some critical requirement for optimal re-use involve the quality, the interoperability and the trustworthy handling of health data. Quality of health data Is the health data that is being analysed accurate? Is it representative of the population under scrutiny? Has it been introduced in a consistent and correct way? INFORMATION GOVERNANCE How can organisation assure that they protect people privacy when handling personal health data? How can organisation successfully integrate GDPR regulation into daily routines? How can health data be safely handled through trustworthy health ICT systems? TRUSTWORTHINESS OF HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS How can healthICT system that handle data be conceived and used in way that meet the highest data privacy requirements? Does the system function a it wa meant to function? seals, certification & BENCHMARKING What type ofquality assessment auditscan ascertain that an organisation that is treating health data doe so in trustworthy way ? What is the value of a label or a certificate? data interoperability standard Is there a clear definition of how data should be mapped and transferred from one health ICT system to another? INTERACTION BETWEEN STAKEHOLDERS How can stakeholder share challenge and solution to scale up the us of health data? As a multi-stakeholder organisation,i~HD can leverage understanding and facilitate scaled-up, judicious data sharing and re-use. Learn why health data is important for each stakeholder group Patients, caregivers, patient representatives, citizen and population health / prevention organisation When all your health professional have access to your up-to-date health data, they are able to provide more efficient, higher quality, safer and more personalised care and care coordination. When you have access to your health data, you can better manage your own health. Health data provided to scientific research will speed up the development of new medical product and treatment for individual who need them. Judicious use of health data will boost health care provider ability to become learning health system and facilitate: the delivery of safer evidence-based care and improve health outcome a more efficient use of health care resource participation in more clinical research and allow for more inhouse research By analysing great number of health data, health policy maker and funders can: give recognition to high-quality and value-based care better guide ongoing healthcare and prevention programme improve public health strategy and plan for the future Pharmaceutical and life science organisation are bringing health care research and innovation to a higher level through the analysis of high-quality real-world data and research data. They therefore: need to raise awareness of the importance of re-using health data demonstrate the trustworthiness and privacy-compliance of their own data handling and system collaborate with data provider whose data and system have been validated a well. The implementation of interoperabilitystandards ha become vital to facilitate the transfer of health data between health ICT system and the sharing of health data for secondary use. Certification organisation perform audit so a to provide an objective evaluation of the trustworthiness or quality of health data or health ICT system used by research platforms, health apps, governments, care professional etc. With a growing interest in sharing and re-using health data and the rise of new digital health technologies, the health ICT industry is challenged by an increased demand for value-added interoperable solution for the trustworthy capture, management, exchange and analysis of high quality data. Whether the aim is to participate in clinical research, to build and share knowledge, to respond to local and nation-wide health challenge or to prevent sickness and disease, high-quality and trustworthy health data catalysis the opportunity for academic and research center to stay on top of their game. Health & data strategy organisation both rely on and provide operational and strategic advice, business intelligence, data warehouse service etc. to address a broad range of health care challenges. The quality of these service is generally directly linked to the presence and the trustworthiness of health data. The growing importance of health data ha led to new opportunity for the data-driven industry: wearables, AI, brokerage service In order to gain wide-spread credibility and trust, this sector need to meet strict requirement and produce evidence related to their trustworthiness and the quality of the data they use. (*) Presented by the CEO of Kaiser Permanente during a conference keynote address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD We connect Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscle We connect to listen, to share expertise and to co-create solution We organise conference and workshop where stakeholder can connect, learn from each other and share innovation in data use We participate, give talk and organise session tracks, in many other event throughout the year through which we listen to and engage with many stakeholder We connect expert in different field of expertise through our task force We are involved in many European project which have themselves large networks, where we can develop, enhance and promote good solution in the use of data and deriving societal benefit from health data, such as: We have also established collaboration with other organisation and initiative which pursue complementary activity in order to help u to achieve our objectives. And finally, we build a privileged relationship with our member in guiding them to make the best use of health data. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD We create Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscle We create practical tool and resource with lasting impact As much a we love to co-create innovative idea on health data re-use through our neutral forum, we are equally focused on developing practical approach and tools, supporting you to tackle the tangible challenge you face in scaling up your use of data and maximising the benefits. Our resource empower you to better understand, create, anticipate, analyse, re-use, demonstrate and implement health data solutions. Some of the resource we produce Data quality dimensionsDPIA data protection impact assessment Data quality improvement strategiesBest Information Governance PracticesData analysis Audit ethical operating rulesData quality assessment reportsSharing template Open coursesSecurity policiesScientific reporting Data protection and transparency policiesAudit criteriaWorkshops GDPR tutorialCodes of conduct Data Management PlansGDPR policiesBlogs Standard operation rules(Accredited) Standards Assessment methodologiesBenchmark report NDAsStudy preparation & designConsent policiesSurveys Internal audit rule booksData flow process analysesPrivacy policy Quality rulesScenariosUse case NewslettersPublic engagement supportsWebinarsData flow process improvement White papersBusiness modelsPersonalised advice Discover our programme We have packaged our tool and resource into flexible programmes. Please feel free to reach out to u with questions. Data quality programme Information governance programme address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD We certify Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscle Proving trustworthy data handling Raising trust between all stakeholder is one of i~HDs key objective Digital health information is booming andcreating exciting opportunities! Patients can now benefit from life-changing innovation that were only made possible because many million of people decided to share their health data. However, health is a very sensitive topic. There is a growing demand by individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data that is being . We conduct assessment that help organisation to better understand and improve their data handling, through trustworthy systems. As a neutral body, i~HD can give recognition to successful organisation with seal and certificate that showcase their quality and their accountable governance. Objective quality label to boost credibility i~HD is a neutral certification body Organisations handling health data who want to demonstrate their real credibility to customers, authorities, staff and patients, can rely on i~HD for expert assessments. We have developed assessment methods, tool and criterion set to audit both the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health ICT systems. Our strength i~HD is a neutral, not-for-profit institute with a focal point on the trustworthy use of health data. We have substantial expertise in developing quality seals,backed by a robust assessment methodology and criterion understanding best information governance practice and GDPR compliance through our participation in many R&D programmes, public and commercial partnership data quality through our dedicated taskforce that consists ofinternational domain expert from different backgroundswho bring over a decade of expertise, combined with our engagement with health care organisation and the research user of data the assessment of EHR system and health data reuse in health ICT platform We have developed unique, comprehensive set of criteria, which can establish the highest standard regarding health data handling. Our experienced team of auditor posse an array of complementary skill and clinical, technical, academic and legal expertise. Create verified trust within your organisation and with your partners. The benefit of our assessment Having health data quality, processes, practices, ICT system and/or tool assessed by a neutral body will achieve huge internal and external impact. Internal impact Build confidence in your data outcome and flow for health innovation Anticipate and satisfy the expectation and need of your partner Focus your priorities: know where and how to roll out improvement strategy Boost your quality management and culture external impact Create reassurance with customers, commissioners, health authority and all other stakeholder that you are handling health data in accordance to a set of quality standard Show that you are working on health data improvement strategy Boost your reputation and market impact address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD We catalyse Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscle We catalyse change, improvement and trust through engaging stakeholder We catalyse innovation in health care, greater patient engagement and more productive research through enabling all player in the health ecosystem to contribute and co-operate in learning from health data We catalyse stakeholder Health care provider to learn more from their health data To invest in better quality and more interoperable data, captured through good-quality EHR system Patients and citizen to become empowered through their data To use their health record to understand their health and care, to self-manage condition through trustworthy apps, and to maintain their wellness Care providers, patient and citizen to trust in sharing their data to improve health care To adopt good practice in data documentation, data protection and data sharing Academic and industry research organisation to scale up their use of big health data To conduct research on new kind of health data, new way to safeguard and use the data to generate valid insight Policy maker to utilise good quality big health data to evidence their decision To invest in health data system and infra-structures, to quality assure the data and the system they use, and to engage the public in priority setting such a improving health outcome Lets create trust We catalyse through maximising the quality of health data maximising the interoperability of health data promoting trustworthy data handling, sharing and use demonstrating trustworthy data handling, sharing and use educating all ecosystem player about the value of health data and how to use it wisely conducting research on new kind of health data, new way to safeguard and use the data and new way to generate valid insight working with partner organisation on the creation and adoption of healthcare and research innovation address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Patient organisation Sharing personal health data will result in better health care for individual patient and for society a a whole New diseases, ageing population and the rising cost of health care provision are putting pressure on our health systems. At the same time, we see promising evolution such a cutting-edge health research, the development of revolutionary technology and innovative techniques, new and more effective treatment and medication. These health innovation are often data-driven. Individual patient can not only benefit from this exciting progress but also contribute to the enhancement of public health How sharing personal health data can benefit patient Discover four major advantages: Health care is becoming more and more complex and specialised. Besides our GP, we are likely to consult one or more hospital clinicians, home care or social care worker and other health professionals, either for personal health issue or for a close relative. Or we may need emergency care in another region of the country or abroad where swift access to our essential health information may be crucial to determine the outcome of the treatment we need. When all of these health professional have access to our up-to-date health data and are aware of the treatment we were prescribed by other member of the care team, they will be able to provide higher-quality and more personalised care. Better coordination will make care provision safer and more efficient a it will make it possible to reduce medical visits, avoid redundant exam and prevent duplicate or even conflicting treatments. With the rise of data-driven health tool such a wearable devices, remote monitoring, mobile health apps and shared electronic health records, people are more closely connected to tracking their own health. Having access to our health data, provides the insight to better manage our health. This understanding will give u a stronger voice interacting with our care team to jointly make the best decision and to define an appropriate care plan taking into account personal priorities. Being an informed partner in our own care will also boost motivation to carefully follow up on medical instruction and adopt the necessary lifestyle changes. Moreover, active patient engagement ha proven to lead to better health outcome and better care experiences. Researchers and clinician need large quantity of health data to understand disease, it causes, it progression over time, the treatment that have been (un)successful. The analysis of health data of million of people help them to forecast health trends, to speed up diagnosis, to discover new and more effective treatments, medicine and medical technologies, to personalise care, to roll out Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) applications. The health data susceptible to boost health research ha often been routinely collected in electronic health record kept by clinicians, but also in population registries, and more recently through mobile health trackers, bio sensors, etc. Conversely, patient may be invited to participate in clinical trial for researcher to gather very targeted health data, opening opportunity for patient to get acces tothe newest medical advancements. Hospitals and other health care provider are facing the ever harder challenge of delivering high-quality but cost-effective service in an increasingly complex health care environment. Health authority and funders are forced to ensure sustainable, future proof care strategies, carefully balancing budget against increasing demands. The analysis of great quantity of health data can help health care provider to improve quality and safety, efficiency and performance, planning and care pathway optimisation. Public health decision maker can rely on big data analysis to produce evidence for policy and resource planning, for public health surveillance and strategy. How health privacy is protected People may worry about the privacy and security of their sensitive health information. How can access to personal health data be limited to authorised persons? What measure do health data user take to safeguard their ICT infrastructure against cyberattacks? Will personal data not be used for other purposes? There are legal, organisational and technical precaution to protect the identity of individual when data is used, such a the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), ethical code of conduct, rule for anonymizing data, access controls, audit trail etc. As it is our ambition to foster legitimate trust in data sharing, we have developed expertise to assist all stakeholder to comply with regulatory requirement and ethical standards. Be part of our neutral health data community Are you interested in learning more about the benefit of sharing health data? Do you want to get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data? Testimonials The patient voice on the importance of innovation through health data Karl Wouter medinet.tv 1 July 2020 Many patient are eager to share their health data to help speed up the development of new treatment if this can be done in a trustworthy way. Mitchell Silva Patient advocate, EUPATI 21 September 2017 Patient engagement in clinical research: transparency is key. Patients show a lot ofwillingness and interest but there is always the aspect of trust. Mary Baker Past President of the European Brain Council 9 March 2016 A better understanding of disease and new treatment is of critical importance to society. Patients and healthy citizen alike should support better us of their health data. Robert Johnstone A patient 9 March 2016 I fully support better use of health data for research, to discover new treatment and other form of health care, provided that assurance can be given that the data are well protected and governed. Petra Wilson Managing Director of Health Connect Partners 9 March 2016 Patients need to be better informed about their health data and in decision being made about their health and care. Patients lack of knowledge limit the value we can all obtain from health data. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health policy maker & funders Providing and promoting better health through judicious health data use Health system across Europe are facing huge challenge and need to adapt rapidly in order to remain sustainable whilst improving quality, by developing future proof care and research strategies, optimising the efficient use of resources. The analysis of great quantity of health data can produce evidence for policy, strategy and resource planning. Data-driven insight are crucial to support the current and future health and research challenge and enhance public health. The return of health care funding can be optimised through the scaled-up, judicious use of health data. Governing body should be able to rely on high-quality health data to drive more effective care provided by the health care provider under their supervision. Building public trust based on evidence Health policy maker & funders: How to put health data to good use? To guarantee the best us of health data, you need to be confident of Encourage health care user to improve and demonstrate their data quality For better insight and decision making Several study have demonstrated that health data is not always of a good enough quality or fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data is traditionally captured by healthcare provider and provider organisations, but increasingly also by medical devices, sensor and health apps directly by patients. Encouraging these organisation and supplier to meet data quality assurance criterion will ensure you have reliable evidence to develop better and more efficient health care service and prevention programmes. We provide instruments, insight and strategy to know, enhance and benchmark data quality Create reassurance in the way health data is used Promote GDPR understanding and adherence Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Yet, it is crucial to enhancing health care and boosting research. Health data use is therefore tightly governed. The privacy regulation need to be well understood and carefully applied. One way to create assurance is to disseminate knowledge and promote adherence to the GDPR. We organise health-data-focused GDPR tutorial Endorse privacy-compliant health ICT system Promote safe digitisation of health care Digital health system now connect to an increasing number of other system and platforms. Every data custodian need to be confident about what they connect to and every patient need to be able to trust their data is safe within those systems. Having the privacy, ethics, security and data protection process of health ICT system assessed, will contribute to a trusted health data system. We ass the privacy, ethics, security and data protection process of health ICT systems. Validate digital health system that demonstrate their reliable functional operation Selection of criterion and assessment The requirement of state-of-the-art health software are multiplying and becoming more and more complex. Users (both organisation and citizens),commissioners and health authority want guarantee that health software operates in accordance with the relevant functional criteria. i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Our programme cover the functional testing of health software Have confidence in the validity of quality label i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by issuing different type of quality labels. We bring over 30 year of learning and expertise in our quality labels. Our team of auditor have clinical, technical, academic and legal background and have substantial expertise in developing quality seals,backed by a robust assessment methodology and criteria. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Standards & certification organisation Connecting and certifying health data expertise Standards have become crucial guideline in the light of the spectacular increase of health data re-use and connectivity requirements. In addition, health data being very personal and sensitive information, both individual and company demand to get objective insight in the quality level of a product, service or process they consider engaging with. Set minimum requirement for good health data or system quality Assess and reward performance Lead the way to improvement strategy Promote connectivity and collaboration Health data standard and assessment create clarity, trust and connection Standards and certification organisations: How to strengthen your focus on health data? Discover howi~HD is promoting the use of standard and certificate in the health ecosystem We facilitate seamless sharing Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a digitally connected health ecosystem We define, validate and select relevant criterion We help organisation define relevant criterion in the field of Data quality: for benchmarking or improvement purpose Information governance: We have developed a unique set of international ISO-accredited(*) criterion relating to privacy, ethics, security and data protection in health ict system The functional operation of digital health systems: We have access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. (*) i~HD is in the final stage of preparation to apply for an ISO accreditation We endorse quality and trustworthiness There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. Within our programme we have developed the following type of quality labels, which we are further expanding: i~HD Certificates i~HD Seals i~HD Qualifications We award seal and certificate We are a neutral, European, not-for-profit institute i~HD is a neutral, not-for-profit institute with one focal point: the trustworthy use of health data. We have substantial expertise in developing quality seals, backed by a robust assessment methodology and criteria. Our experienced team of auditor posse an array of complementary skill and clinical, technical, academic and legal expertise Connection, collaboration, co-creation We bring health data stakeholder together to showcase the value of data re-use, to boost collaboration, to help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where people can showcase their expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Pharma & life science Improve your access to reliable health data so a to boost research Pharmaceutical company and the life science industry rely on both research data and real-world data to conduct ground-breaking health care research and to bring innovation to a higher level. Improve your access to reliable real-world data You want to raise awareness of the importance of re-using health data. You want to rely on real-world health data that meet the criterion you have defined and that is fit for your research purposes. Create trust You want to produce evidence that you are handling high-quality health data in a privacy-compliant way. You want to show accountability for the outcome of your research. The privacy-compliant use of high-quality and trustworthy health data and system is crucial to advance research Pharma and life sciences: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident of the quality of your research data A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is the very core of your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your company daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to real-world data Increased research eligibility for health data provider You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your research objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data i~HDs involvement in IMI project i~HD play a strong role in national and international R&D project and European-wide collaborative initiatives. We are collaborating with many pharma company through several IMI projects. Click on the logo to learn more about our involvement in each of these projects. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health ICT industry Demonstrate the trustworthiness of your digital health system The soaring use of health data is reflected in the growing adoption of digital health system and applications, from Electronic Health Records (EHRs) used by health care provider & organisation to fitness and health apps readily accessible for all citizens. The need to capture and manage health data in trustworthy way ha forced the health ict industry to meet complex and high requirements. Health authority rely on data-driven insight to design future proof health care strategies. In addition, they start endorsing mobile health apps, and even provide for reimbursement, for apps that meet the highest requirements. Health care provider rely on EHR data to deliver evidence-based care and optimise care coordination. EHR system need to allow for proper analysis while safeguarding patient privacy. Researchers and clinician want to conduct large-scale data analysis to speed up health innovations. Seamless exchanging or connecting and quality of data are crucial requirements. Patients and citizen are more and more convinced of the added value of digital health, and willing to embrace this, provided data protection and smooth operation are ensured. Prove the compliance of your software in the field of functional operation quality of data handling and flow data privacy (e.g. GDPR) and ethic Health ICT industry: How to gain the trust of your partners? Be confident and convince that your health ICT system Demonstrate the smooth functional operation of your digital system Stay on top of the fast-changing requirement The requirement of state-of-the-art health software are multiplying and becoming more and more complex. Users (both organisation and citizens),commissioners and health authority want guarantee that your software operates in accordance with the relevant functional criteria. i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Our programme cover the functional testing of health software Make sure the data in your system can be linked and connected Facilitate seamless sharing Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a connected health data ecosystem Ensure adequate GDPR knowledge in your organisation Increase the efficiency of your development process Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is therefore tightly governed. Your digital health system ha to be designed with data privacy and protection in mind. We can help educate your developer and designer to understand and integrate the GDPR privacy regulation in your software packages. We organise customised tutorial a well a open course in the field of GDPR Safeguard privacy when sharing and exchanging health data Promote safe digitisation of health care Every user of your software need to be able to trust their personal health data is safely protected. In addition, in a collaborative health ecosystem, every data custodian need to be confident about the data they connect to. IDHIS, i~HDs Information Governance Certification Programme, audit the conformity of data flow in health ICT system against a unique set of international criterion relating to privacy, ethics, security and data protection. Having your health ICT system assessed, will contribute to a trusted health data system. We ass the privacy, ethics, security and data protection process of health ICT system Have confidence in the validity of our quality label i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by issuing different type of quality labels. We bring over 30 year of learning and expertise in our quality labels. Our team of auditor have clinical, technical, academic and legal background and have substantial expertise in developing quality seals, backed by a robust assessment methodology and criteria. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Data-driven industry Propelling forward the health data movement Health data is driving innovation. The growing awareness, acceptance and eagerness for stepping up the us of health data doe require industry player to provide evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of their health data handling. Give yourself the tool to confirm your legitimate position in the health data ecosystem. Be ready for new opportunity Be prepared for challenging evolution and requirement such a the rise of mHealth and A.I., the increasing need for connecting digital health systems, escalating demand by customer and regulator Enhance your reputation in an expanding market by showing accountability for the outcome of your activity Optimise your efficiency by improving the quality of your internal process Create trust Be confident and create confidence when exchanging health data with stakeholder and partner Be reassured when receiving and relying on health data from a diversity of medical technology device Prepare your organisation for demand to demonstrate your privacy-compliant data handling Promote the benefit from interoperable health solution Data-driven industry: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident you produce reliable data A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is the very core of your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your company daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to reliable real-world data Combine and collate health data You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Make sure data from different source can be connected Facilitate seamless sharing Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a connected health data ecosystem Comply with the relevant functional criterion Stay on top of the fast-changing requirement The requirement of state-of-the-art health software are multiplying and becoming more and more complex. Users (both organisation and citizens),commissioners and health authority want guarantee that health software operates in accordance with the relevant functional criteria. i~HD ha access to a repository of over 1700 indexed fine-grained validated criteria. Furthermore, a new criterion set are being developed by stakeholder in the health ICT ecosystem, we step in to help define the criterion and to go through the validation phase that is required before integration in a standardised scheme. Our programme cover the functional testing of health software Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health care provider Be well equipped for an innovative future Health care provider are facing ever greater challenges. Judicious use of health data reinforces you to face our increasingly complex health and care environment. Be ready for new opportunity Deliver safe, personalised and evidence-based care Optimise care coordination and care pathway Embrace and evidence better health outcome and value-based health care Participate in clinical study so a to accelerate new medical advance and open up new revenue stream Create trust in larger network Be confident and create confidence when exchanging health data with stakeholder and partner Be reassured when receiving and relying on health data from a diversity of medical technology device Prepare your organisation for demand to demonstrate your privacy-compliant data handling The privacy-compliant use of high-quality and trustworthy health data and system is crucial to embrace these opportunity Health care providers: How solid is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident of the quality of your health data Get the right insight Learning from the health data that is stored in your patient EHRs is the foundation for clinical, operational and strategic decision-making. The quality of your decision-making is linked to the quality of your health data.However, the quality of this data is not always what you might expect. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Benchmark your dataset for specific reuse purpose Gain the confidence of research company You want to scale up your opportunity to participate in clinical research so a to offer your patient access to innovative medical advance and to enable your clinician to stay at the top of their game. However, real-world health data is often not fit for purpose. You will be more eligible to participate in clinical trial if pharmaceutical and other research company are reassured that your patient population fit their needs. We verify that your data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, discover novel approaches, learn from each other and boost collaboration to maximise joint value from health data. Participating in our event and joining our neutral European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Academia and research center Help to establish success condition for scaling up health data research Academia and research center interact and collaborate with the wide range of health data stakeholders. Whether the aim is to participate in clinical research, to build and share knowledge, to respond to local and nation-wide health challenge or to prevent sickness and disease, access to and use of high-quality and trustworthy health data is usually key to the successful implementation of their projects. Improve your access to reliable real-world data You want to raise awareness of the importance of re-using health data. You want to connect with hospitals, GPs and other data source to find research collaboration opportunities. You want to rely on real-world health data that meet the criterion you have defined and that is fit for your research purposes. Create societal trust You want to help establish success condition and societal trust to scale up investment in big data research. You want to produce evidence that you are handling high-quality health data in a privacy-compliant way. You want to show accountability for the outcome of your research. Facilitate health data re-use and value evidence gathering for more and better research Academia and research centers: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident of the quality of your research data A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is the very core of your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your company daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to real-world data Increased research eligibility for health data provider You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your research objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Make sure data from different source can be connected educate stakeholder about the importance of standard Thetransfer of health data from one ICT health system to another similar system is necessary to allow for better individual care provision and for big data analysis. i~HD is active in promoting the development and use of interoperability standard through EC Support Actions and innovation projects, awareness campaigns, guide and educational material for professional and decision makers. i~HD can help you be part of a connected health data ecosystem Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health and data strategy organisation Create trustworthy health intelligence to lead the way Health care system and organisation are constantly balancing exciting opportunity such a the introduction of new technology and medicines, the development of A.I. algorithm and more personalised care against the threat of soaring health care expenditure and call for more accountability, to name just a few. Health data is often at the heart of operational, strategic and clinical insights, business intelligence and data warehouse service that support health innovation, provided it meet strict quality and privacy requirements. Enhancing health care through health data The analysis of great quantity of health data can produce evidence for policy, strategy and resource planning, and clinical innovations. The reliability of data-driven insight depends on the quality of the health data under analysis, the reliability of the digital health system used and the trustworthy approach applied by data workers. Create trust You want to raise awareness and knowledge, within and outside of your organisation, of the importance to re-use health data, and produce evidence you do so in trustworthy ways. You need to access and combine data from several sources. It is essential that you be confident and create confidence when exchanging health data with stakeholder and partner or when relying on data from a diversity of medical technology devices. Demonstrate accountability of your health data outcome Health and data strategy organisations: How robust is your health data approach? Are you sure all measure are in place in order to Be confident you produce reliable insight A continuous cycle of data improvement Health data is a major asset to your business. It is essential that data quality check and improvement cycle be integrated in your organisation daily routines. We provide you with instruments, insight and strategy to know and enhance your data quality Improve your access to reliable real-world data Combine and collate health data You want to select the appropriate real-world data fast and easy. However, real-world health data is often not fit for the intended re-use purposes. Health data provider can therefore have their specific data set benchmarked against your quality criterion so a to check whether they are fit for your objective. We verify that health data is fit for purpose Comply with all data protection regulation Create clarity and alignment Health data is the most personal and sensitive information. Its use is tightly governed. GDPR compliance is a challenge that ha to interplay with other aspect of information governance such a ethics, security and contractual obligations. In addition, the assurance of the processes, tool and practice that are in force when using a health ICT system is essential. And finally, you want to educate your staff to ensure they understand and adhere to your practice and policies. We conduct conformity assessment against a unique set of European criterion We organise GDPR tutorial Produce the necessary quality label Create certified trust There is a growing demand from individual and business alike to see evidence of the quality and trustworthiness of health data and health data handling. As a neutral body, i~HD can help produce the necessary evidence by conducting assessment and issuing different type of quality label that showcase an organisation accountability. We award seal and certificate Be part of an innovative health data community Connect and collaborate Get in touch with other health data stakeholders, showcase the research value of data, boost collaboration, help shape governance of societally trusted reuse of health data in research. Participating in our event and joining our independent European multi-stakeholder institute mean being part of a health data community where you can showcase your expertise, propose initiative and work out solutions. i~HD unites all health data stakeholder to catalyse and enable the reuse of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Community We are building a health data community As people are getting more and more convinced of the , we find that stakeholder are willing to work with us, and together, on developing and adopting good data practices. There are many stakeholder who need to create and make better use of health data. i~HDbrings thesemultiple stakeholder groupstogether in our neutral forum, so that they can learn from each other, share challenges, and work with u and with our network of European expert to develop solution that enable u to scale up the us of health data. We engage and connect to build collaboration and establish trust in the use of health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Contact u Dear visitor, kindly use this page to send any question to u regarding our services, mission, vision, website and other topics. Please also feel free to use this form to provide any feedback related to our services. Thank you in advance. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Cookie Notice How to control cookies? You can control and/or delete cooky a you wish for further detail regarding cooky generally see aboutcookies.org. You can delete all cooky that are already on your computer and you can set most browser to prevent them from being placed. If you do this, however, you may have to manually adjust some preference every time you visit a site and some service and functionality may not work. How i-HD us personal data Learn more about how i-HD process personal data and how you can contact u in ourData Protection and Privacy Notice. Please state your consent ID and date when you contact u regarding your consent. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Disclaimer This website ( ), it content and the material held on the educational platform at academy.i-hd.eu are owned by i~HD. The information published in these site is intended for all stakeholder with an interest in innovation through health data. Any use, redistribution, or reproduction of any material therein, in part or in whole, without express written consent from i~HD is strictly prohibited. Some section of the website and the educational platform request specific information from the visitor. Information which may be collected from these site through questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means, enables i~HD to determine the visitor interest with the goal of providing a better service and to provide services. i~HD will protect your information in accordance with applicable legislation. i~HD may provide link to webpage which are not part of the i~HD website (*.i-hd.eu). These site are not under i~HDs control and i~HD is therefore not responsible for these websites, information or link they contain or their management. This Disclaimer must be read in line with ourPrivacy Notice,Cookies Noticeand Retention Policy ( ). address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Data Protection Transparency and Privacy Notice Introduction The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) process personal data to fulfil it purpose a a not-for-profit association for promoting innovation in health care. i~HD regard it protection of it member and interested party with the highest priority and applies all possible effort to comply in full with the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and all other applicable laws. As a not-for-profit member association, i~HD is both a data controller and data processor to fulfil it purposes, which are described in detail throughout this notice. To manage the service we offer, Vimexx host our website server. i~HD contract with Microsoft to use Office 365 under license to handle our corporate system including routine business, email and customer relationship management. Microsoft act a a Data Processor under contract with i~HD. i~HD also us remote collaboration platform including GoTo Meeting and Zoom under license. We describe in this Notice the activity i~HD engages with and the kind of personal data we use to achieve these. Depending on the activity the personal data we process includes but is not limited to: your title, first name and surname your email address detail of the organisation that you work for and it location your IP Address login detail if you register for our online service and data relating to any event you attend including registration detail a well a photograph and video of you attending these event if you consent to this. Full detail or our processing activity are provided throughout the rest of this Notice. If you have any query about i~HDs personal data processing activity or about the exercising of your right under GDPR, please contact the Data Protection Officer at . When doe i~HD process personal data? The activity where i~HD process personal data are a follows: visiting our website; registering a a member; registering to receive our newsletter, event invitation and update to our service and activities; registering to attend our event and the subsequent management of the event that you attend; sharing update about our events, including speaker details, video of presentations, photograph and interviews; detail about our task force, committee and i~HD team members; participating in a survey; in handling any query that you may have about i~HD, it work or any other matter you may wish to discus with us; in running our services, including Data Quality Assessment, our data protection and security certification and the i~HD Academy; when participating in EU funded projects. i~HD doe not share your personal data between our members, or any attendee of our event or visitor to our website beyond what we have specified in this notice. In each case, we retain the data for a long a we need to fulfil the above purpose of it processing and any legal obligation where we are required to handle and retain the data. Please refer to our Data Retention Policy for full details. Visiting our website i~HD us cooky on our website to improve your experience of using our website. You can review our cooky policy at . Note that there are some cooky that are necessary to use the site (including your consent preference for cookie use). Otherwise you can consent to the use of non-essential cooky from any of our pages, but you are not required to do so to use the site. i~HD us Google Analytics to help u improve our website by informing u which country visitor are viewing the website from and which page are of most interest to them. Google Analytics process a visitor anonymous IP Address to provide i~HD this information but only if the user consent to this. Where you have registered to use the feature of the website, the personal data that is processed by the cooky includes your login detail if you decide to accept cooky and to remain logged in, where you have been granted access to register on the site. Registering a a Member of i~HD When registering a a Member of i~HD via our website, we ask for your first and last names, your function in your company or institution, email address, the company or institution you belong to and the country in which you are based. Further, we ask for your website, if applicable, and VAT registered number a well a your institution registered address and postal code. We ask you to select which of our core stakeholder group you belong to. We also ask you for your title, but this is optional. The processing of personal data for registration is needed for performance of a contract or it preparation and is covered a a legal basis under Article 6(1)(b) of GDPR. i~HD retains the data a long a you are a member, and should your membership end, i~HD retains it for legal obligation under Article 6(1)(c) of GDPR for audit purpose pursuant to Belgian Law. Registering to receive newsletters, event invitation and update to our service When registering for our newsletter, event invitation and update to our service via our website or directly with our offices, we ask for your first and last names, your function in your company or institution, email address, the company or institution you belong to and the country you are based in. We ask you to select which of our core stakeholder group you belong to. We also ask you for your title, but this is optional. We do not ask for any other details, personal or otherwise. Consent under Article 6(1)(a) is the legal basis under which i~HD process your data to register you for these updates. If you wish to stop receiving communication from i~HD, you are always able to . In that event, you will not be contacted again. i~HD doe not retain your contact detail unless you have otherwise shared your detail with u for the other purpose we outline in this notice or where a legal obligation must be met under Article 6(1)(c) of GDPR. You may always re-register to receive newsletter should you change your mind and wish to hear from u again. Registering to attend an i~HD event and subsequent management of that event When registering to attend an i~HD event via our website or directly with our offices, we ask for your title, first and last names, your function in your company or institution, email address, the company or institution you belong to, your role and the country you are based in. We ask you to select which of our core stakeholder group you belong to. Furthermore, we ask you to provide u with your dietary preference and any specific need to cater for your attendance at our events. We do not ask for any other details, personal or otherwise. When registering, i~HD process your personal data to manage your attendance at our event with your explicit consent a a legal basis under Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR. Once you have registered, we do not add you to a published attendance list unless we have obtained your explicit consent to do so under Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR. i~HD retains your personal data to fulfil the purpose of managing your attendance at our event and for audit purpose after the event under Article 6(1)(c) of GDPR for legal obligation. i~HD will add you to it contact list if you are not already on it to keep you informed on newsletters, further event and update to i~HDs services. i~HD process your contact detail a we believe it is in your and i~HDs legitimate interest under Article 6(1)(f). Should you wish to unsubscribe from this list at any point, you can do so at your convenience by . Sharing update about our event Where you have agreed to be a speaker, we process your personal data on our website to publicise our event and to share update about the event once it ha finished. The data we share will be your full name, your organisation, title, function, a photograph and a short bio that you will provide us. Should you share this with us, we will also share link to your social medium platform profiles. We process this personal data for the purpose of publicising the event and delivering it. The legal basis under GDPR is Article 6(1)(f) where in agreeing to be a speaker, i~HD ha identified that it is in our and your legitimate interest for u to process the data for these purposes. You may of course object to or restrict this processing (as described in the right section below) and if you prefer u to remove your personal data from the website or refrain from using it in newsletters, we will honour your right a defined in GDPR to the fullest extent. Should you decide to withdraw a a speaker prior to the event, we will destroy the personal data and if you prefer we withhold any of the data from the website we will of course refrain from putting it there. Our event are recorded either through the filming of speakers, panel and audience members, audio recording or photograph for the purpose of updating our member and the wider public about our event. Under GDPR Article 6(1)(a) we seek the explicit consent from any participant that we record in any way for this specific purpose. The consent is entirely freely given and you are free to grant it or not a you see fit without any impact on your participation in the event. You may withdraw your consent for the recording and a soon a you do, we will remove the recording from public display immediately and provided we do not have to retain it under other legal obligation, destroy it without the need for any explanation from you at all. We cannot however remove name of speaker or panellist from a past agenda or meeting report a documenting a past fact where these are provided on our website under events. Details of our task force members, committee and core team member Where you have agreed to become a member of one of our task force or committees, we will share your name, organisation, title, function, a photo and a short bio, a well a link to your social medium profile on the relevant website page and in our newsletters. Where you are a member of our core team, we will share personal data including your name, a short bio title, function, photo and email address on our website and newsletters. In both cases, we will do this under Article 6(1)(f) where i~HD ha identified that it is in both our and your legitimate interest to publicise this on the website and in newsletters. You may of course object to or restrict this processing (as described in the right section below) and if you prefer u to remove your personal data from the website or refrain from using it in newsletters, we will honour your right a defined in GDPR to the fullest extent. Handling communication from you about i~HD When you contact u either from our or directly, we will process your personal data for the purpose of handling the reason for your contacting us. Where your reason for contacting u is about your existing membership i~HD will handle your personal data under Article 6(1)(b) for the performance of a contract or it preparation. If your query is general or with regard your right under GDPR, this will be with your explicit consent under Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR. We will retain a record of your query for one year for audit purposes. We will also add your contact detail to our contact list but only if you explicitly consent to this in accordance with Article 6(1)(a) of GDPR. Running our service i~HD will handle the contact detail for client we provide service to, which includes Data Quality and Data Security and Protection Assessments, the i~HD Academy and the preparation of Tutorials. For all these purpose unless otherwise specified, i~HD will process the contact person(s) name, email address, role and the detail of the organisation they work for. Where i~HD conduct interview a part of it services, we will retain the name and role of any interviewees. Where i~HD run tutorials, we process the name and email of attendees. For the Academy, i~HD requires your Full Name, email address, Town/City and Country of Residence to register for Moodle. Please note that you may if you wish add more detail under your profile, you are free to do so according to the term of enrolment in the Academy. Please note that i~HD doe not require the processing of Special Category Data for these service so please bear this in mind when adding profile detail to the Academy or engaging with u around the other services. The legal base under which we process personal data for these purpose will depend on the nature of the service and will be specified within the agreement we sign with you. The legal basis will be for either legal obligation under 6(1)(C) of GDPR or performance of a contract or it preparation and is covered a a legal basis under Article 6(1)(b) of GDPR. When handling special category data, specific Article 9(2) justification will be provided a part of our agreements. Where running Data Quality Assessments, i~HD will only receive anonymous data. For additional rigour and in the event of accidental re-identification of data subjects, i~HD act a a data processor only under contract with the data controller where all data handled by i~HD will be securely transferred and held in an encrypted state using 256bit Advanced Encryption Standard encryption within an access controlled, dedicated and audited Office 365 Sharepoint Space. When you register for the i~HD Academy, please note that we contract with Avetica to serve a a Data Processor under our instruction to configure and maintain the Moodle Platform we use to serve you with the educational and assessment materials. You may review Aveticas detail at and you will find out more about how Moodle handle your personal information at . Participating in EU Funded Projects i-HD will handle personal data during it participation in EU Funded projects. In these cases, the categories, legal base and Article 9 Justifications will be specified in the appropriate agreement document and information leaflets. What are my rights? At all times, GDPR give you the following right which we will of course honour in full compliance with it provisions: the right to request access to any of your personal data that i~HD processes; the right to data portability where you can request a digital copy of the data for your own uses; the right to the rectification (correction) of your personal data where it is incorrect; the right to request erasure of your data a outlined by GDPR; the right to restriction of processing by i~HD including where you identify and raise a problem with the data processing until the problem is resolved; the right to object at any time to processing of your personal data including that which is based on Article 6(1) (f) of GDPR where we have identified a legitimate interest. Where the processing of your personal data is based on your consent, you can withdraw your consent at any time and without any reason. Withdrawing your consent mean that i~HD will not make use of your data any longer for the purpose that you consented to. This doe not invalidate past us of your personal data for which you gave consent and your personal data will continue to be processed in the event of any legal obligation that i~HD must meet. Please send an email to the data protection officer atdpo@i-hd.euto exercise any of your rights. i~HD must confirm your identity and will review your request to ensure that it can be honoured without compromising other legal requirement and pursuant to the limitation provided by GDPR. We aim to have replied within 30 day of your request except where you have withdrawn your consent, which shall be actioned immediately. You may also write to the following address: The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & Statistics Ghent University Hospital Building 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42 C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 Gent, Belgium Please note that you always have the right to lodge a complaint with the Belgian Privacy Commission at commission@privacycommission.be should you be unhappy with how we have handled your request or any of your personal data. Updates to how we process data and this notice If we substantially change how we process your data (for example using a new tool or service provider) we will undertake a Data Protection Impact Assessment pursuant to GDPR Article 35. This would be the case if we identify that any change require significant additional processing of your personal data and / or risk to your right and freedoms. Where we identify a clear need to update this notice we will inform you immediately. Last updated 21st December 2021 Data Retention Policy i~HD retains personal data according to the following guidelines: 1. i~HD process personal data for specific purpose a defined in our Data Protection and Transparency Notice and will only retain personal data for a long a is necessary to complete these purpose and satisfy legal requirements. 2. Where we are required to retain data after the retention period for each purpose ha expired, we will post a notice. These purpose may include dispute resolution, in the case of legal obligation (for example a ordered by a court or if it is used in a criminal investigation). 3. Where possible, we will retain data using pseudonymised data after we have completed the purpose for which it is being processed. 4. When retention requirement under law have expired, personal data will be destroyed using a secure deletion method a offered by Microsoft Office 365 licensing and where possible all data will be removed from any backup that have been created. Once deleted, any personal data will be irretrievable. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Newsletter registration Get our quarterly update delivered to your inbox. We may occasionally send you an additional message when we launch new feature or organise an event we feel you should not miss out on. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Contact u Dear visitor, kindly use this page to send any question to u regarding our services, mission, vision, website and other topics. Please also feel free to use this form to provide any feedback related to our services. Thank you in advance. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health data drive innovation NEWS i~HD join coalition in raising concern on draft European Health Data Space regulation SPOTLIGHT Interoperability in health care EVENT i~HD and UHasselt co-organising one-day symposium AC2023 i~HD Annual Conference 2023 Health data ha the potential to catalysesmarter health careandefficient research. We need to urgently ramp up our learning by creating and combininghigh-quality health data and advocating itstrustworthy uses. As a neutral, multi-stakeholder instituteThe European Institute for Innovation through Health Data strives tomaximise community value from health data. That is why we promote, develop and share good practice and tool and perform quality assessments. We must learn from health data now to enhance tomorrow world Why we champion better health data re-use: real world example Fighting COVID-19 with big data Finding the best type of blood pressure drug for the prevention of heart attack and stroke Better clinical decision based on high-quality health data Reimbursement for health apps with demonstrated data protection and interoperability Best colonoscopy practice for earlier diagnosis of bowel cancer Discover why and how health data is crucial to boost knowledge Our 6 core work stream QUALITY OF HEALTH DATA Health data is often not fit for crucial reuse purpose such a clinical research, decision making, value-based health care. We therefore catalyse stakeholder to scale up their data quality, by coaching, educating and equipping them with instruments, organising assessments, providing insight and strategy to benchmark and enhance their health data quality, and providing expert support in all phase of the research lifecycle. INFORMATION GOVERNANCE All organisations, and the public, need to trust the way in which health data is used, and by whom. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) ha heightened our awareness of this. We have translated our expertise in data protection for reuse purpose into code of practices, educational and certification programmes, which we provide to organisation and European projects. TRUSTWORTHY HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS With more and more health ICT system collecting and exchanging health data, we see a growing demand to demonstrate the trustworthiness of those systems. Using 1700 criterion and a standardised conformity assessment framework, we ass and certify the quality and governance of health ICT platforms. DATA INTEROPERABILITY STANDARDS Interoperability standard are vital to scaling up health data use, even more so given the rise of patient and citizen generated data. i~HD staff and expert have a long history of developing international health data interoperability standards, and their adoption into product and health ecosystems, connecting clinical information between silo to enable safer and more effective patient care, and big data research. QUALITY LABELS: CERTIFICATES & SEALS Organisations handling health data want to provide assurance they do so in trustworthy ways. i~HD programme offer audit for data, ICT systems, information governance and skills. As an independent institute, i~HD is best positioned to award quality label to stakeholder that showcase their engagement, quality and accountability. SCALING UP THE HEALTH ECOSYSTEM We know that everybody need to do more, and invest more, in health data through improved model of healthcare delivery, patient empowerment, and the development of innovative diagnostics and treatments. We help to stimulate this multi-stakeholder momentum to collect, curate, share and analyse data across care and research, for the benefit of all. Lets create trust Our approach Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscles. We convince We convince everyone about the societally-beneficial us of health data, about the need for high-quality data and how health data can be shared in acceptable ways. We connect We unite stakeholder within our neutral forum to share need and expertise, to co-create optimised solutions, to coach each player to assure their quality and increase their trustworthiness. We create We create innovative solution and programmes, practical guides, educational resource and quality label to support the creation, use, sharing and reuses of health data. We certify We ass thequality and trustworthy us of health data and we award successful organisation with seal and certificates. We catalyse We catalyse change and improvement through engaging multiple stakeholder in co-creating and then adopting health data usage solution and programmes, education, peer networks. Health data stakeholder Enriching knowledge and enhancing care through health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD 2020 2024 i~HD Health data drive innovation NEWS i~HD join coalition in raising concern on draft European Health Data Space regulation SPOTLIGHT Interoperability in health care EVENT i~HD and UHasselt co-organising one-day symposium AC2023 i~HD Annual Conference 2023 Health data ha the potential to catalysesmarter health careandefficient research. We need to urgently ramp up our learning by creating and combininghigh-quality health data and advocating itstrustworthy uses. As a neutral, multi-stakeholder instituteThe European Institute for Innovation through Health Data strives tomaximise community value from health data. That is why we promote, develop and share good practice and tool and perform quality assessments. We must learn from health data now to enhance tomorrow world Why we champion better health data re-use: real world example Fighting COVID-19 with big data Finding the best type of blood pressure drug for the prevention of heart attack and stroke Better clinical decision based on high-quality health data Reimbursement for health apps with demonstrated data protection and interoperability Best colonoscopy practice for earlier diagnosis of bowel cancer Discover why and how health data is crucial to boost knowledge Our 6 core work stream QUALITY OF HEALTH DATA Health data is often not fit for crucial reuse purpose such a clinical research, decision making, value-based health care. We therefore catalyse stakeholder to scale up their data quality, by coaching, educating and equipping them with instruments, organising assessments, providing insight and strategy to benchmark and enhance their health data quality, and providing expert support in all phase of the research lifecycle. INFORMATION GOVERNANCE All organisations, and the public, need to trust the way in which health data is used, and by whom. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) ha heightened our awareness of this. We have translated our expertise in data protection for reuse purpose into code of practices, educational and certification programmes, which we provide to organisation and European projects. TRUSTWORTHY HEALTH ICT SYSTEMS With more and more health ICT system collecting and exchanging health data, we see a growing demand to demonstrate the trustworthiness of those systems. Using 1700 criterion and a standardised conformity assessment framework, we ass and certify the quality and governance of health ICT platforms. DATA INTEROPERABILITY STANDARDS Interoperability standard are vital to scaling up health data use, even more so given the rise of patient and citizen generated data. i~HD staff and expert have a long history of developing international health data interoperability standards, and their adoption into product and health ecosystems, connecting clinical information between silo to enable safer and more effective patient care, and big data research. QUALITY LABELS: CERTIFICATES & SEALS Organisations handling health data want to provide assurance they do so in trustworthy ways. i~HD programme offer audit for data, ICT systems, information governance and skills. As an independent institute, i~HD is best positioned to award quality label to stakeholder that showcase their engagement, quality and accountability. SCALING UP THE HEALTH ECOSYSTEM We know that everybody need to do more, and invest more, in health data through improved model of healthcare delivery, patient empowerment, and the development of innovative diagnostics and treatments. We help to stimulate this multi-stakeholder momentum to collect, curate, share and analyse data across care and research, for the benefit of all. Lets create trust Our approach Through our community and programmes, i~HD help all player in the health data ecosystem by flexing our five muscles. We convince We convince everyone about the societally-beneficial us of health data, about the need for high-quality data and how health data can be shared in acceptable ways. We connect We unite stakeholder within our neutral forum to share need and expertise, to co-create optimised solutions, to coach each player to assure their quality and increase their trustworthiness. We create We create innovative solution and programmes, practical guides, educational resource and quality label to support the creation, use, sharing and reuses of health data. We certify We ass thequality and trustworthy us of health data and we award successful organisation with seal and certificates. We catalyse We catalyse change and improvement through engaging multiple stakeholder in co-creating and then adopting health data usage solution and programmes, education, peer networks. Health data stakeholder Enriching knowledge and enhancing care through health data address c/o Dept. Medical Informatics & StatisticsGhent University HospitalBuilding 5K3, 5th floor, Entrance 42C. Heymanslaan 10,9000 GentBelgium Bureau Veritas Certification Holding SAS - UK Branch certifies that the Management System of The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data ha been audited and found to be in accordance with the requirement of the management system standard ISO 9001:2015 for: -Leveraging multi-stakeholder co-operation in the health data ecosystem-Providing expertise in R&D project and EU- wide collaborative initiatives-Development and organization certification programme 2024 i-HD