interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Our network strives to promote evidence-informed clinical practice and policy decision-making. RAI stand for resident assessment instruments; these are scientifically validated instrument enabling an assessment of the degree of dependency and the care need of individuals. Vision and Mission: interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Instruments overview acAcademyacute careaddictionsadolescentAndrew CostaAndrew P. Costaantipsychoticantipsychotic drugsappointeeasdassisted livingassisted living supplementautismblindCACAHSCanadaCanada Research ChairCanadianCanadian Academy of Health Sciences (CAHS)Canadian Academy of NursingCanadian doctorsCanadian Institute for Health InformationCanadian Nursing Association (CNA)care managementcaregivercase managementCHAchildchildrenChYMHCIHIcmhCNAcommunitycommunity health assessmentcommunity mental healthcomprehensive geriatric assessmentcovidCOVID-19cracuCVSDDdeafdeliriumdepressiondevelopmental disabilitiesdisableddown syndromeDr. John HirdesEDelder careelderlyelectedemergencyemergency departmentemergency screenerend of lifeERESPFellowFellowsFellowshipforensicfunctional supplementgeriatric careHCHCBShealth carehealth researchhealth science researchHealth scienceshealthcareHirdesHome Carehospicehospitalhospital intakeidin-patientinpatient psychiatricinstitutional careintegrated careintegrated care for seniorsintellectual disabilitiesinterRAIinterRAI FellowinterRAI FellowsinterRAI TreasurerJohn Hirdeslong-term carelong-term care facilitylong-term care homeLTCLTCFLTSSMedia engagementMedical Post Awardsmedical researchmedicinemental healthmental health supplementmhnursesnursingnursing academynursing homeoccupational therapyolder adultsOrder of Canadaout-patientoutpatientpacpalliativepan-Canadian nursingpandemicpcpediatricPEDSpersonal assistancepersonal carepersonal support workerphysical therapyphysician practicesphysiotherapypolicepost-acutepreferencespreventiveprimary careprivate-duty nursingpro-activepsychiatrypsychosispsychoticQOLquality of lifereferralrehabilitationResearchResearch Fellowresearch studyresidental-settingresidential careresidential facilitiesRight Honourable Mary Simon Governor GeneralRoyal Society of CanadaRSCSamir Sinhascholarscholarshipscreenerself-reportservice planningskilled nursingspecial needsspeech-languagestrengthssupplementsurveysurvivortaggartrailblazerUniversity of WaterlooUWaterlooVeronique Boscartvulnerability screenerwellnessyouth Search for keywords like child, depression, etc. No result interRAI instrument are designed to be compatible across health sectors. This improves continuity of care, promotes a person-centered approach, and improves the organization capacity to measure clinical outcomes. Instruments are built on a core set of item with identical definitions. Additional item are added to address issue unique to the population or setting. Most instrument use a format with a trained assessor. Increasingly our instrument also have self-report versions. We offer several type of instruments: Comprehensive instrument identify key factor in the person life, including function, health, social support, service use, mood, and behavior. Status and outcome scales, care planning and resource allocation tools, and quality indicator are embedded in comprehensive instruments. Screening instrument collect information needed to support decision about care urgency, need for more comprehensive assessment, and referral to other service and supports. Quality of Life instrument capture the person day to day experience of issues, including their care, autonomy, privacy, participation in activities, comfort, and safety. Organizations can use result to adjust a person care plan a well a to establish person-reported experience measure (PREM) to drive quality improvement. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Applications Applications interRAI instrument system collect information once and use it for multiple purpose to support clients/patients, care professionals, managers, and administrators. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Research News interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa Awarded Prestigious Canada Research Chair in Integrated Care for Seniors March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the interRAI Treasurer, Board Member Dr. John Hirdes Named to the Order of Canada January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart Appointed to Canadian Nurses Association (CNA) December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination interRAI Fellows Appointed to the Canadian Academy of Health Sciences December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that two of it Fellows -- Drs. Shannon L. Stewart, PhD, Cpsych, FCAHS and Samir K. Sinha, MD, DPhil, FRCPC, AGSF -- have been appointed to the esteemed . Election to Fellowship in the Academy is considered one of the highest honour for Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe About u About interRAI About u interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Our network strives to promote evidence-informed clinical practice and policy decision-making. We maintain high quality standards. Each instrument represents the result of rigorous research and testing to establish the reliability and validity of items, outcome measures, assessment protocols, case-mix algorithms, and quality indicators. interRAI Worldwide The map show both interRAI Member country and where interRAI instrument have been purchased and are in use. Contact For information about the interRAI organization, it research, Fellows, or licensing interRAI content, please contact: or call and leave a voicemail. If you need assistance ordering interRAI printed book or ebooks, please contact: Email: Tel in the US: Tel outside the US: Languages We typically issue new instrument and manual in English. Our instrument have been translated into many languages, including Spanish, French, German, Chinese languages, Korean, Japanese, Icelandic, Italian, Dutch, Estonian, Norwegian, etc. Fellows assist in translating our instrument into native languages. In the published manual can be searched by language Licensing For more information on licensing, please complete our We actively pursue partnership with organization and government that wish to adopt our tools. Use is permitted only by written license with interRAI; the purchase of a Users manual doe not provide a use license. Licensing usually requires royalty payment for use of our intellectual property either by software vendor or government/care providers, and requires the sharing of fully-deidentified data with interRAI solely for research purposes. Researchers use of our tool solely for research study requires a license, but usually doe not require royalties. Revenues are used solely for research and development purposes, enabling interRAI to develop new system and update those that are already in use. As a nonprofit corporation under the US Tax Code, interRAI hold the copyright to our assessment systems, including those for long-term care facility (MDS Version 2.0 and 3.0 are in the public domain only within the United States), home care, palliative care, mental health (outside of Canada), intellectual disability, acute care, child and youth, and quality of life, among others. The scales, algorithms, and case-mix measure based on these assessment instrument are not copyrighted and are thus available to everyone, although the individual item on which they are based are copyrighted. The major clause of our royalty-free license include: the instrument is not to be changed substantially (except individual identifier and demographics), although additional item can be added; only licensed translation can be used; the instrument will not be incorporated into product to be sold to or paid for by others; the organization will make appropriate effort to inform others of the copyright status of the instrument; interRAIs logo and copyright notice are to appear on the form and any other publication; authors, author institutions, and translator (as appropriate) are to be acknowledged in any document where author would usually be listed; electronic data from use of the instrument are to be shared with interRAI, subject to existing law on confidentiality and data use. Use of interRAI system usually requires royalties. Licenses usually pertain to individual instrument and nations. Software vendor are usually required to: develop method to sublicense the interRAI instrument to users; imbed export routine in their software to enable data-sharing, including with interRAI; implement user report for scale and other algorithms; avoid mounting interRAI licensed product on the open web. We will be pleased in any license negotiation to acknowledge the participation of individual or organization that have played a substantial role in getting the instrument to the point of implementation. For more information on licensing, please contact: Software Search our list of Vendors with contact information and the interRAI software they produce. Repository If you are an interRAI Fellow or an authorized Vendor you may click on the link below to access the interRAI Repository, a Microsoft Office 365 SharePoint site. You will be prompted to log in with your interRAI Repository username and password. Click here to Log in to If you need assistance, please contact . We will respond a quickly a possible within one business day. A help file in PDF format is available for Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Research Bibliography The interRAI bibliography contains over 1,500 research article which employ data from interRAI assessment system a they are used around the world. The article date from 1978, come from a variety of discipline and cover a wide range of topics, with implication for policy-makers and for individual health care provider alike. Selected publications: If you would like to have a peer-reviewed journal article listed in this bibliography, please send either a PubMed/MEDLINE link for the article abstract, or an electronic copy of the article to: Email: We will be happy to list and/or point to any article published in a scholarly journal and include it in future update to this bibliography. We will also accept government reports, foundation publications, etc. We would appreciate a reciprocal link from your article back to . Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe About u Fellows Want to get in touch? You can reach u by email: firstname.lastname@interRAI.org Current member Abyad, Abdulrazak, MD, MPH, MBA, DBA, AGSF lb Alharbi, Khulud Khalid, MHA, PhD sa Khulud Alharbi is an Assistant Professor specializing in health economics and health service management research. She ha been actively involved in various project aimed at developing tool to screen for frailty in Saudi Arabia, collaborating closely with the Ministry of Health. Additionally, she lead the research unit in the Faculty of Public Health and Health Informatics, where she spearhead project focused on improving the health of the elderly and caregiver in the country. Alharbi's dedication to addressing the healthcare need of the elderly population in Saudi Arabia is evident through her leadership in several initiative and collaboration with key stakeholders. Her expertise in health economics and management research ha positioned her a a valuable asset in advancing the understanding and implementation of effective healthcare strategies. Furthermore, Alharbi is a member of the Saudi Society of Home Care, showcasing her commitment to promoting and enhancing home care service for those in need. Through her work and leadership roles, Alharbi continues to make significant contribution to the field of healthcare in Saudi Arabia. Ario-Blasco, Sergio, MD, MPhil e , Inf., MPH, PhD fr Baiden, Philip, PhD u Barbaree, Howard, PhD, CPsych ca Belleville-Taylor, Pauline, RN, MS, CS u , PhD, PT ca Bernabei, Roberto, MD it Bjrkgren, Magnus, PhD fi Boscart, Veronique M., RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ca Brown, Gregory P., PhD ca Carf, Angelo, MD it Carpenter, G. Iain, MD, FRCP gb Crase, Valrie, MD fr Cheung, Gary, PhD FRANZCP MBChB nz Chi, Iris, DSW hk Cohen, Joachim, PhD be Comans, Tracy, PhD, B.Econ(Hons), B.Phty au Costa, Andrew P., PhD ca Andrew Costa is the Schlegel Research Chair in Clinical Epidemiology & Aging and an Associate Professor in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact a well the Department of Medicine at McMaster University (https://experts.mcmaster.ca/display/acosta). He serf a the Scientific Director of the St. Josephs Centre for Integrated Care (https://stjoescic.ca/) and is an Associate Scientific Director of the Canada Longitudinal Study on Aging. He is an interRAI Fellow, and member of the Instruments and Systems Development (ISD) Committee. His program of research make use of health information (big data) to target, develop, and evaluate model of care in home and community care, emergency departments, hospitals, and long-term care (https://bdg.mcmaster.ca/). He also lead work on digital platform that help patient and their caregiver navigate home and community care service (https://www.yourcareplus.ca). From 2014 to 2022, he ha over 100 publication and ha held more than $8 million CAD in research funding a the nominated primary investigator. De Almeida Mello, Johanna, PhD be De Cuyper, Kathleen, PhD be Kathleen De Cuyper is a scientist/practitioner at the University Psychiatric Center of the University of Leuven (KU Leuven, Belgium). As a clinical psychologist and behavioral therapist, she worked with person with an anxiety disorder, personality disorder and/or eating disorder. Her clinical expertise includes exposure therapy, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy and Dialectical Behavioural Therapy. Her doctoral research wa on the predictive value of directly and indirectly measured perfectionism in student and person with an eating disorder. She now work a a post-doctoral researcher and coordinator of the Flemish Policy Research Centre Welfare, Public Health and Family. The focus of here policy- and practice-oriented research includes (1) the development, evaluation and implementation of BelRAI instrument in mental health care, elderly care and home care, (2) the prevention of seclusion and restraint in residential mental health and youth care services, and (3) the organization of mental health care at the level of service and regions. De Stampa, Matthieu, MD, PhD fr Declercq, Anja, PhD be Dey, Aparajit, MD in Ferlin, Elton L., BScPhysics, BSEE, MBA br Elton Ferlin is a research engineer at the Biostatistics and Data Analysis Unit at Hospital de Clnicas de Porto Alegre, Brazil. He hold Bachelor of Science degree in both Physics and Electrical Engineering from the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, and an MBA in Data Science and Analytics from the University of So Paulo. He ha developed software and hardware solution for instrumentation, acoustics, and teaching applications, holding 10 patent in Brazil and 2 abroad. His expertise encompasses a wide range of area including heart rate variability, hypertension, non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, and the modeling of electrophysiological signals. Research interest include spatio-temporal analysis in epidemiology, big data model and data-driven decision-making. , PhD, MBiostatistics au Professor Jason Ferris is a drug and alcohol epidemiologist and biostatistician with over 20 year of public health research experience. He lead the Global Substance Use and Mental Health Unit and is the Director of the Research and Statistical Support Service (RASSS) in the Faculty of Medicine. University of Queensland. His extensive research portfolio, at the intersection of Substance Use and Mental Health, represents his effort to increase public understanding of the harmful impact of substance on mental and physical health. Involved in more than 50 funded research project (over $50M) a a chief investigator. He is also the Chief Biostatistician for the Global Drug Survey since 2013. 2020 The University of Queensland recognised his contribution to his research field: he wa awarded and Academic Leader of the Future Award, and in 2019 The Outstanding Mid-Career Researcher within the Centre for Health Services. Fialov, Daniela, PharmD, PhD cz Finne-Soveri, Harriet, MD, PhD fi , MD, PhD e Head of Psychiatry and Mental Health Department. Complejo Asistencial de Zamora/Zamora Hospital. Head of Psychiatry Research Group of the Biomedicine Research Institute (IBSAL). Associate Professor of the Salamanca University (Dpto. PETRA). Member of the Salamanca Medicine Academy. Secretary of the Ethical Committee for Research of Zamora. President of the Spanish Geriatric Psychiatry Association. Member of the board of Interdem Network (www.interdem.org) and the European Association of Geriatric Psychiatry. Fries, Brant E., PhD u Brant E. Fries, Ph.D. L.L.D. is a founder and President of interRAI, and Professor Emeritus of Health Management and Policy and Research Professor Emeritus of the Institute of Gerontology at the University of Michigan. He is a principal author of the Resource Utilization Groups system for classifying nursing home residents, used a the basis nationwide to pay over $33 million per year to United States nursing home under the federal Medicare system, a well a case-mix system for person with intellectual disability and inpatient in mental health facilities. He co-authored the Resident Assessment Instrument (RAI) used in every US nursing home and the interRAI-Home Care used in half of US states. Within interRAI, he also ha co-authored assessment system for aging persons, prisoner in correctional facilities, and caregivers. In his research he ha worked with US state and international government to develop better decision-making, from the clinical to policy level. He ha authored over 40 book (plus over 50 translated into other languages) and over 150 peer-reviewed article on care of vulnerable population and quantitative modelling of health care systems. Frijters, Dinnus, PhD [Emeritus] nl Garms-Homolov, Vjenka, PhD de Dr. Vjenka Garms-Homolov, ha PhD in Psychology, is Professor Emeritus for Health Management at the Alice Salomon University, and Honorary Professor for Theory and Practice of Health Services Research at the Technical University of Berlin. She worked a a Health Scientist for most of her academic career. Her research focus on health care for chronically ill and elderly people and on coping with disability in the social context. She is an active member of the State Network for Women's Health (www.frauengesundheit-berlin.de), and member of the German Society for Gerontology and Geriatrics (https://www.dggg-online.de/). As an interRAI-Fellow she cooperates with a worldwide network of researcher on the development and implementation of standardized assessment for various care setting (interrai.org). She is the author and co-author of numerous scientific and popular publications. Since 2016, she ha been writing textbook for student of social psychology and psychological diagnostics. Gatobu, Sospeter, PhD ke Sospeter Gatobu, PhD ha progressive experience in research (qualitative and quantitative), monitoring, evaluation and learning, knowledge translation/implementation science, communication (corporate, development, health), strategic planning, project management, resource mobilization, and capacity building. Sospeter ha worked with local and international organization to translate research into practice to improve health, food security, health and general community development especially for the rural poor in Africa. Sospeter ha managed large-scale programme and project in Canada and in Africa in research, health, education and development, in non-profits, and academics. Sospeter is a trained teacher with experience lecturing at different level of education in Kenya and in Canada. He is a member of the Centre for leading Research in Education (CLRiE) of the Wilfrid Laurier University, and the Canadian Association for Global Health. He is also a visiting lecturer/scientist at the University of Nairobi, Kenya, where he is currently developing a gerontology course for the University. He is also the Kenya coordinator of the Pan African Utilization of Lay Assessment Systems (PAULAS) research project on ageing. Sospeter ha a PhD in Health Studies and Gerontology from the University of Waterloo, Master of Arts (Communication) from Daystar University (Kenya), and a Bachelor of Education from Kenyatta University (Kenya). He is proficient in English, Swahili, and four other Kenyan languages. Geffen, Leon, MBChB FCFP(SA) za Gindin, Jacob, MD il Gishoma, Darius, Clin. Psy, PhD rw Dr. Darius GISHOMA is a Senior Lecturer at the Mental Health Department, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Rwanda. He is holding a PhD in clinical Psychology obtained from Catholic University of Louvain/ Belgium. For the last ten years, he have been involved in training of mental health professional in Rwanda at different levels: Mental Health Nurses, Psychologists, General Practioners, Counselors and nonprofessional volunteers. In addition to being a lecturer at University, he maintains a clinical practice for individual affected by genocide-related consequence and other Mental Health issue in Rwanda. Darius Gishoma ha research interest in treatment development and evaluation of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Depression and Substance Abuse, Global Mental Health, Maternal and Child Mental Health and Community-based interventions. He is a memberof the Rwanda National Ethics Committee. Goldfarb, Samantha Sittig, DrPH, MPH u Dr. Goldfarb is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Behavioral Sciences and Social Medicine at Florida State University College of Medicine. She received her Doctorate of Public Health (DrPH) in the Department of Health Care Organization and Policy at the University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Public Health. Dr. Goldfarbs degree hold a concentration in Maternal and Child Health Policy, and her research is focused on these issues, particularly a they relate to the life course perspective which hold that there are a complex set of risk (e.g., stress, perceived discrimination) and protective (e.g., education, mental health counseling) factor that impact individual health throughout their life span which must be addressed for optimal prevention of poor health outcomes. She is particularly interested in understanding the impact of state health and drug policy on maternal and perinatal populations. She ha taught (and continues to teach) undergraduate and master level course related to conducting research, public policy, community-based need assessments, and program evaluations. She ha also been involved in several state and federal contract in both Florida and Alabama aimed at improving population health through surveillance and assessment. In particular, she ha led the evaluation for Floridas Opioid Overdose Data to Action (OD2A) grant funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Gray, Len, MD, PhD au , PhD ca , PhD u Jeffrey Harman, PhD, a health economist, is a Professor in the Department of Behavioral Sciences and Social Medicine at the Florida State University College of Medicine. He received his Ph.D. in Health Services Research, Policy, and Administration from the University of Minnesota. His research explores utilization and expenditure of health services, with an emphasis on the impact of health policy on cost and service for vulnerable populations, such a individual with limited income and individual suffering from mental illness. Dr. Harman currently lead two evaluation of Floridas Medicaid programs, which provides health insurance for Floridas poorest residents. He is an active member of AcademyHealth, which brings together stakeholder to inform health policy and practice, and the interrRAI Network of Mental Health (iNMH). Dr. Harmans research ha resulted in over 100 peer-reviewed scientific articles. Hawes, Catherine, PhD [Emerita] u Head, Michael J., MSW u , MD, MSc, FRCPC ca Heikkil, Jyrki, MD, PhD fi Henrard, Jean-Claude, MD [Emeritus] fr Hermans, Kirsten, PhD be Dr. Hermans ha a degree in Psychology and a PhD in Biomedical Sciences. She defended her doctoral thesis on the validation of the interRAI Palliative Care instrument in nursing home in 2017. Currently, she is working a a postdoctoral researcher at the Universities of Leuven (LUCAS) and Brussels (End-of-Life Care Research Group). Her research mainly focus on quality improvement in palliative care in nursing home and home care using interRAI Palliative Care and interRAI Home Care data. Dr. Hermans became an Associate interRAI Fellow in 2018. She is a member of the interRAI Network of Integrated Care and Aging (iNICA). Hirdes, Alice, RN, MScN, PhD br , PhD, FCAHS ca , PhD ca Howard, Elizabeth P., PhD, RN, ACNP, ANP-BC, FAAN u Elizabeth P. Howard is an Associate Professor in the Connell School of Nursing, Boston College, Adjunct Scientist at the Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, and Fellow in the American Academy of Nursing. Dr. Howard is a member of interRAIs Network in Integrated Care and Aging and the Instrument and Systems Development Committee. Dr. Howard ha experience examining healthy aging intervention including web-based art intervention, comprehensive geriatric assessments, and wellness coaching program. She also contributes nursing expertise to development, testing and implementation of geriatric model using interRAIs national and international data to address risk for common geriatric syndrome such a cognitive decline, falls, and frailty. As a certified adult/geriatric primary care nurse practitioner and an acute care nurse practitioner, Dr. Howard maintains a practice in an internal medicine clinic setting. Her scholarly activity focus on vulnerable, underserved older adult with 2 intersecting domains. Dr. Howard ha experience examining healthy aging intervention including web-based art intervention, comprehensive geriatric assessments, and wellness coaching program. She also contributes nursing expertise to development, testing and implementation of geriatric model using interRAIs national and international data to address risk for common geriatric syndrome such a cognitive decline, falls, and frailty. Hubbard, Ruth E., MD au Iantosca, Jo Ann Marie, PhD, MEd ca Dr. Iantosca is a Professor in the School of Early Childhood Education at Seneca College in Ontario, Canada and supervises undergraduate research in the Bachelor of Child Development program. Dr. Iantosca obtained her PhD from the Faculty of Education, specializing in Applied Psychology at Western University. She ha a Master of Education degree, an Honours Bachelor of Arts degree in Developmental Psychology, and Bachelor of Education degree from the University of Windsor. Dr. Iantosca is also an Ontario certified teacher (OCT) and registered early childhood educator (RECE). Dr. Iantoscas research focus on developmental trajectory in the early year with a focus on early assessment. She authored the interRAI 0-3 instrument, associated collaborative action plans, and validated the developmental domain of the interRAI 0-3 for her doctoral dissertation. Dr. Iantosca ha successfully received community and provincial grant for her doctoral research and volunteer in the non-profit sector a a grant proposal manager. , MD, PhD, MA jp Naoki Ikegami is Professor Emeritus at Keio University, Tokyo. He wa Chair of the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Keio School of Medicine, from which he received his MD and PhD. He also received a Master of Arts degree with Distinction in health service study from Leeds University (United Kingdom). During 1990-1991, he wa a visiting professor at the University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School and Medical School. He is a founding member of interRAI (a non-profit international consortium of researcher and clinician focused on care planning instruments), and served a a consultant to the WHO and the World Bank. He ha been President of the Japan Society of Healthcare Administration and of the Japan Health Economics Association. He ha sat on various national and state government committees, including the Chair of the Investigative Specialist Sub-committee on Case-mix Based Reimbursement for Chronic Inpatient Care and member of the Reforming Elder Healthcare Council and of the End-of-Life Health Care Council. His research area are health policy, long-term care and pharmacoeconomics. His publication include The Art of Balance in Health Policy - Maintaining Japans Low-Cost Egalitarian System (Cambridge University Press, 1998) with John C. Campbell, Japanese universal health coverage: evolution, achievement, and challenge (lead author) (Lancet, 2011), Universal Coverage for Inclusive and Sustainable Development: Lessons from Japan (editor) (World Bank, 2014). He ha contributed a chapter in Regulating Long-Term Care Quality (edited by Vince Mor et al, Cambridge University Press, 2014) and in Long-term care reform in OECD Countries (edited by Chistiano Gori et al, Policy Press, 2016). Intrator, Orna, PhD il James, Mary L., MA u Jamieson, Hamish, PhD, MBChB, FRACP nz Jnsson, Plmi V., MD, FACP, FRCP L [Emeritus] is Kehyayan, Vahe, PhD qa Kergoat, Marie-Jeanne, MD ca Kim, Hongsoo, PhD, MPH, MSN, RN kr Kinsell, Heidi S., PhD u Kristinsdttir, Inga V., RN, MSc, APN is Inga Kristinsdttir is a PhD student at the University of Iceland and an Advanced Practical Nurse at the Home Care Center of Icelands Primary Care of the Capital Area. She implemented the interRAI Home Care (HC) assessment in the Home Care Center at the Primary Care of the Capital Area in Iceland. She wa a coordinator in Iceland to gather data for the IBenC study, and is using them in her PhD project, in which she ha also presented result from study using interRAI data. She is also in a research group where a doctoral student us the interRAI ScaN assessment to explore the well-being of caregivers. Laurenson, Duncan, MBChB za Leite, Homero Teixeira, MD, PhD br Ljunggren, Gunnar, MD, PhD se Dr. Ljunggren earned his medical degree from Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden, and is a specialist in internal medicine and geriatric medicine. Between 1990 and 2006 he ran the Centre for Gerontology and Health Economics (CGH), based in Stockholm County, after which he joined the county council a a medical advisor. Now retired, he is linked a a researcher to Karolinska Institutet. His dissertation in 1992 included a validation of the RUG system in Swedish nursing home and the first article on cross-national comparisons, using interRAI instruments. In addition to performing training in the various interRAI instruments, Dr. Ljunggren ha been involved in study in health economics and health service research for older person a well a for people in mental health, palliative care, and acute care settings. Dr. Ljunggren is one of the two interRAI Fellows in Sweden and ha served on the interRAI board. He ha also been involved in several project funded by the European Union. From it start almost twenty year ago, he ha been a member of the Instrument and Systems Development (ISD) committee, developing new instrument and scales. Currently, most of his time is spent evaluating health care using the administrative database available in Stockholm and some local study on care for older persons. hk Lu, Shuang, PhD, MSW u Lum, Terry hk hk , MD, PhD lt Martin, Lynn, PhD ca , PhD gb Mathias, Krista, PhD ca , PhD, MScPT, BSc(KIN) ca , PhD, MEd, SLP nz Millar, Nigel, MD, BS, FRACP, FRACMA nz Mofina, Amanda, PhD, MSc ca Amanda Mofina is a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Waterloo. She completed her PhD in Rehabilitation science and MSc in occupational therapy at Queens University. Prior to pursuing her clinical degree, Amanda completed a thesis-based MSc in Kinesiology at Wilfrid Laurier University. Amanda ha clinical experience across the care continuum in acute care, inpatient rehabilitation, and complex continuing care settings. Her current research interest combine her clinical experience a an occupational therapist with her previous area of research. Areas of research interest include health care and care transitions, mental health, primary care, community care, health care in correctional services, health care for adult with multiple chronic health conditions, and use of population-level health data. Monod, Stfanie, MD ch Mor, Vincent, PhD u Morris, John N., PhD, MSW u Mowbray, Fabrice, PhD, RN u Fabrice Mowbray is Assistant Professor & Research Methodologist at the Michigan State University College of Nursing. Dr. Mowbray ha extensive clinical experience a a trauma trained Registered Nurse. Trained at McMaster University, Dr. Mowbray is a quantitative research methodologist, with particular interest in prognostication and pragmatic experimental methods. Dr. Mowbray is interested in the design and evaluation of geriatric emergency management model a well a advanced care planning. Murphy, Katharine M., PhD, APRN, GNP-BC u , MBBS, GDGM sg Dr Ng Wai Chong is the Founder and CEO of NWC Longevity Practice, a start-up providing aged care consultancy, training, and research, a well a direct clinical services. For more than 20 years, Dr Ng ha worked a a community aged-care physician in a non-profit organization in Singapore. He currently consults and train for international and regional organisations, government agencies, healthcare institution and universities. His area of expertise are person-centred care, frail care, dementia care, end of life care, healthy ageing, and population health, spanning clinical work from policy formulation and implementation to care system design. Dr Ng ha also been the chair and member of various government committees. Dr Ng received the Minister for Health Award 2018 from Singapores Ministry of Health and The Courage Fund Healthcare Humanity Award 2016 and wa named the Global Ageing Influencer by Ageing Asia in 2018. Nonemaker, Sue, RN, MS u Onder, Graziano it Peel, Nancye, PhD, MPH, BPhty au Pei, Xiaomei, PhD cn , PhD ca Phillips, Charles D., PhD, MPH u Pimm, Bonnie, RN au Rabinowitz, Terry, MD, DDS u Ribbe, Miel, MD, PhD [Emeritus] nl Saarela, Tuula, MD, PhD [Emerita] fi , RN, PhD ca Saks, Kai, MD, PhD ee Schroll, Marianne, PhD [Emerita] de Shaikh Kadir, Faezah Bte sg Shcherbank, Konstantin, MD, MSc is Sinha, Samir K., MD, DPhil, FRCPC, AGSF ca Sjstrand, Fredrik, MD, PhD se , PhD ca , PhD, MA, RN no Spirigien, Lina, PhD lt Dr. Lina Spirgien ha a PhD in Nursing, and is associate professor in nursing at the Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing (). Her area of expertise are patient safety, geriatric nursing, patients, and caregiver need. She is a principal investigator in international of the , a well a . She cooperates with an interRAI worldwide network of researcher on the development of standardized assessment for long term care and home care setting (interrai.org). She is a member of Editorial board of the journal . She is the author and co-author of 153 scientific and popular publications, textbooks, learning material and other articles. Steel, Knight, MD [Emeritus] u , PhD, CPsych ca Dr. Stewart is a Full Professor and Clinical Training Director at the School and Applied Child Psychology Program at Western University, Faculty of Education, London, Ontario Canada. Additionally, she is an Adjunct Assistant Professor within the Department of Psychiatry, Child and Adolescent Division at Schulich School of Medicine at Western University. She is also an Associate Scientist at the Childrens Health Research Institute (CHRI), interRAI Research Fellow and Associate Editor for the Canadian Journal of School Psychology. Dr. Stewart is leading the international development and implementation of the interRAI suite of instrument for child and youth with mental health need within a variety of service sector (e.g., education, health). Swoboda, Walter, MD de Szczerbinska, Katarzyna, MD, PhD pl Katarzyna Szczerbiska, MD, PhD, Professor of Geriatrics with expertise in Long-term Care and health promotion among elderly people. Head of the Research on Aging Society Laboratory at Chair of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Medical Faculty, Jagiellonian University Medical College in Krakw, Poland; a specialist in geriatric medicine and long-term care at the Geriatric Clinic in the University Hospital. A principal investigator in several high-budget international research project (FP5 CLESA, FP7 PREDICT, FP7 PACE; SPRINT-T. Currently, in I-CARE4OLD and NAVIGATE funded from HORIZON. Since 2004 a Fellow of InterRAI, and ISD member. Since 2019 the Secretary General of the ExCom IAGG-ER; a Board member in the Polish Society of Gerontology and the Collegium of Geriatrics Specialist in Poland. A member of the EUGMS task for FRIDs and the EAPC RG on Aging and Palliative Care. Author of over 250 scientific publication available on JU Repository, and on Scholar Google. , MD, MAS u , MPH u Topinkov, Eva, MD, PhD cz Tremblay, Gilbert A., BSc, MA ca Gilbert Tremblay is a Clinical Psychologist at the Douglas Mental Health University Institute in Montreal Quebec. He specializes in the assessment and treatment of complex disorder a well a co-occurring mental health and substance-related disorders, including a an expert witness in juvenile court assessing parenting skill of parent with substance use disorder and young people in difficulty. He also serf a the interRAI mental health assessment coordinator for the Douglas Mental Health University Institute. He ha a Lean Six Sigma Black Belt and ha served a project manager in research and development of mental health technology and intervention method since 2011. Turcotte, Luke, PhD ca Umubyeyi, Benoite, MscMHN, PhDc rw Vadeboncoeur, Christina, MD, FRCPC ca Dr. Vadeboncoeur is an Assistant Professor of Pediatrics in the Department of Medicine at the University of Ottawa and a Pediatrician who work with the Palliative Care Program at the Childrens Hospital of Eastern Ontario, at Roger Neilson house and in the community. She is involved in a Canadian network of pediatric palliative care researchers, and collaborates on population data research in Ontario. She is involved in piloting the interRAI Pediatric Home Care instrument in Ontario and developing the Clinical Assessment Protocols for the PedsHC instrument. Valdimarsdottir, Rakel, RN, MHRM is , PhD be Prof. Dr. Chantal Van Audenhove is full professor at Department of Public Health and Primary Care, KU Leuven (Belgium). She teach psychology and applied communication for medical student and for student in dentistry. She is the director of LUCAS, Center for Care Research and Consultancy of the KU Leuven. As an expert in practice- and policy-oriented research her focus is on mental health and the care for people with dementia. Previous research project dealt with among others the relationship between informal caregiver and patients, the quality of the living environment, Expressed Emotion in the professional and informal care relationship, vocational rehabilitation, stigma and discrimination, prevention of depression and suicide. She is an active member of international networks, such as: the European Alliance Against Depression (EAAD), the interRAI Network of Mental Health (iNMH) and INTERDEM, a pan-European network of researcher focusing on psychosocial intervention in dementia. van der Roest, Hnriette, PhD nl , PhD nl , PhD gb Vereker, Natalie, PhD, MSc, MA ie , PhD ca Vetrano, Davideo Liborio, MD, PhD se Dr. Vetrano is a geriatrician and epidemiologist, and work a an assistant professor at the Aging Research Center of Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, Sweden. His main research focus is to investigate the longitudinal trajectory of multimorbidity and frailty in older adults, understanding their determinant and their impact on survival, quality of life and healthcare use. He is currently the PI of three project on multimorbidity and frailty funded by the Swedish government, and WP leader in two Horizon2020 project on multimorbidity (one of which is based on interRAI data). Dr. Vetrano is author of more than 170 article published in peer-reviewed journal (H-index 33) and several book chapters. He is currently main supervisor of two PhD students, two postdoc fellows, and several research assistants. , SLP, PhD ch Wood, Susan, RGON BScAdvN, MNS, FCNA nz In Memoriam Bjrnson, Jan Leif Jan Bjrnson, an interRAI fellow, scientist, lecturer, and friend, wa during all these year a ray of light in the interRAI meetings. He had a mesmerizing gift to engage u all and to teach. By doing so he shared his vast knowledge and experience in geriatric medicine with all of u and all our audience all over the world. We miss you, Jan. Harriet Finne-Soveri Jan Bjrnson (1939-2021). interRAI member since 1995. Physician, MBChB. Aberdeen University 1964, specialist in internal medicine, renal disease, and geriatrics. Doctoral thesis 1978, University of Oslo. Established geriatric service in two hospital in Oslo with a new outreaching service linking hospital and primary care. Hosted an interRAI meeting in Oslo in 1999. Was a member of the group who developed the RAI AC instrument. Engaged in research on RAI instrument especially with colleague of the NordRAI group, with several publication on documentation in hospital and prediction of outcome. After retiring from hospital work in 2005, he spent time lecturing on The Ageing Process from a holistic perspective. Jan is survived by wife Elisabeth, four children, and twelve grandchildren. Neufeld, Eva Dr. Eva Neufeld wa appointed interRAI Associate Fellow in 2015 a a member of the interRAI Network of Mental Health (iNMH). She wa Research Associate with the Centre for Rural and Northern Health Research (CRaNHR) at Laurentian University in Sudbury, Ontario. She wa cross-appointed to the Northern Ontario School of Medicine (NOSM) a an Assistant Professor in the Division of Human Sciences. She received her PhD in 2013 from the School of Public Health and Health Systems, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Neufelds program of research covered the field of aging and mental health, with a focus on suicide prevention, health outcomes, rural health, and health service utilization patterns. Her PhD research wa the first examination of suicide-related behaviour among older adult in Ontarios home care sector using the RAI-Home Care instrument (RAI-HC). Dr. Neufelds research used interRAI instrument to inform the development of a Seniors Wellness Strategy for the City of Greater Sudbury, a well a a need assessment of men mental health and suicide prevention service in Northern Ontario. She wa the Co-Chair of the North East Suicide Prevention Network (NESPN) and Executive Board Member of the Waterloo Region Suicide Prevention Council (WRSPC). Sherwood, Sylvia Dr. Sylvia Sherwood entered the field of Gerontology in the early 1960s, joining with the other luminary of that era in laying the foundation for a new field of research in the social sciences. She described the role of post-acute care decade before it became part of the health care delivery system; she influenced the early developer of the concept of assisted living and championed the application of de-institutionalization to the elderly and nursing homes, all concept that are fundamental to current universally accepted policy in support of home and community-based services. As a mentor and leader, Sylvia demanded much from those around her and the result testify to her leadership. As a person, Sylvia ha always been open and accessible, someone that others were pleased to call a friend. Care of the elderly is better because of her entry into the arena in the early 1960s. Her legacy is the research institute that Sylvia and Murray May began some 50 year ago. It represents the actualization of their vision that it wa possible to perform the highest quality research with national and international reach in an applied setting, marrying the interest of the care delivery system for the elderly with advanced theory and research methods. Her career made a difference. John N. Morris and Vincent Mor Sluchevskaya, Sofia Dr. Sluchevskaya wa an Assistant Professor in Mechnikov I.I. NW State Medical University in St. Petersburg, Russia. She completed her medical study in St. Petersburg Medical University, specializing in psychiatry. From 1998 she worked a a head of the gerontopsychitaric ward in City Geriatric Center, treating more than thirty patient a month (ambulatory and inpatients). In 2002, she graduated from the Law faculty of St. Petersburg State University and wa occupied by human right in psychiatric asylums. From 2004-2007, she wa the Vice Chair of Children Psychiatric Hospital with 230 inbeds and a big wide net of ambulatory clinic for mentally ill children. From 2007, she wa a Chair Doctor in St. Petersburg State Psychoneurological Research Institute. She graduated from the faculty of management in 2009 with a diploma in mental health care. Her dissertation wa dedicated to management of gerontopsychiatric services: Epidemiology and management of mental health care in geriatric population in St. Petersburg. She wa a tutor in the psychiatric student department for three years. She wa a member of the Russian Psychiatric Association and Russian Gerontologic Association and member of the editorial board of the Old Patient journal. She ha published fifty scientific article and several book chapters. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Articles News interRAI Treasurer, Board Member Dr. John Hirdes Named to the Order of Canada January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemedfor his contribution to evidence-based health care practice and policy, notably through the research and development of standardized assessment and decision support tools. Dr. Hirdes is interRAIs senior Canadian fellow, a Board member, Treasurer, and the chair of both it International Network for Mental Health and the interRAI Network of Canada. He also serf a a Professor in the University of Waterloo School of Public Health Sciences and is a fellow of the Royal Society of Canadaand theCanadian Academy of Health Sciences. Having chaired the Universitys Committee on Student Mental Health (CoSMH), Dr. Hirdes is known for his research in geriatric assessment, mental health, health care and service delivery and health information management. Dr. Hirdes recently ha pioneered translation, adoption and use of interRAI instrument in India and Africa. He received a2022 University Professor designationat the University of Waterloo. Dr. Hirdes career ha been dedicated to making mental healthcare and geriatric service evidence-informed, more efficient and effective in his home of Canada and worldwide, said Dr. Brant E. Fries, president of interRAI. He is also passionate about sharing his knowledge through collaborative research. We are proud of the work Dr. Hirdes ha accomplished and to see it recognized by one of Canadas highest honours. interRAI assessment system are utilized by researcher and health professional in over 40 country for care planning, outcome measurement, resource allocation, quality improvement, and policy development. These system are used across the continuum of care and with person of all age from newborn to centenarians. Its a privilege to contribute to making the quality of life better for vulnerable population in a country that welcomed my family and me many year ago, Hirdes said. Collaborating and doing our best to make health care better either through direct hands-on clinical practice or through population and system level intervention ha been incredibly fulfilling. Im excited and humbled to be appointed a a Member of the Order of Canada. Hirdes is among 78 new appointment to the Order of Canada made by Her Excellency the Right Honourable Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada. Every year since 1967, the rank of the Order of Canada have been enriched by the appointment of new member whose contribution reverberate in community across the country and beyond.Members contribution reverberate in community across the country and beyond. Through their exemplary commitment, they inspire and challenge u to join them in making Canada a better country. About interRAI interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 40 country committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex needs. Our network strives to promote evidence-informed clinical practice and policy decision-making. We maintain high quality standards. Each instrument represents the result of rigorous research and testing to establish the reliability and validity of items, outcome measures, assessment protocols, case-mix algorithms, and quality indicators. To learn more, please visit . Media Contact: Heather Caouette RAE Communications Tel in the US: 866-595-5055 Tel outside the US: +1-978-546-8475 Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Articles News interRAI Treasurer Dr. John Hirdes Named Royal Society of Canada Fellow September 14, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that it Treasurer Dr. John Hirdes ha received the esteemed honor of election a a Royal Society of Canada (RSC) Fellow. According to the RSC, Dr. Hirdes is among one hundred and one new Fellows who have been elected by their peer for their outstanding scholarly, scientific and artistic achievement. Recognition by the RSC for career achievement is the highest honour an individual can achieve in the Arts, Social Sciences and Sciences. about the RSC class of 2023; or to read the University of Waterloo story on Dr. Hirdes election. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Articles News interRAI Member Dr. Samir Sinha Honored at Medical Post Awards November 18, 2022 interRAI member Dr. Samir Sinha ha been selected a a runner-up for the 2022 Media Engagement Award. TheCanadian Medical Post Awards support national independent physician voices, contribution to community, and innovative practices. TheMedia Engagement Award honour a Canadian doctor who is leading change in healthcare through medium and social medium communication a an individual doctor at the grassroots level. to learn more. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe User profile The power of informed decision-making interRAI solution will help you make choice responsive to your circumstances. When planning health care services, decision need to be based on reliable, valid data. interRAI system provide you with comprehensive information on the characteristic of your client population and the outcome of the service you provide, both from a quality and cost perspective. With high quality information at hand, you can craft data-driven policy decisions. For more information on government licensing, please see our . For more information on licensing, please see our or contact: Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe User profile Streamlined assessment instrument for vulnerable population interRAI tool are designed to support you in your daily work. We offer reliable and rigorously tested clinical assessment tools, developed by international team of clinician and researchers. interRAIs person-centered system produce scale and risk screener to help you understand a person care need holistically, without redundant paperwork. For more information, visit our and pages. For more information on licensing, please see our or contact: Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe User profile Efficient tool for evidence-based management interRAI offer you streamlined solution to implement quality improvement and resource planning. Our system provide scientifically supported reporting across community and health care settings. Quality indicator and case-mix methodology enable manager to monitor your agency performance, both from a quality and cost perspective. These measure are embedded in our assessment instruments; no additional data need to be collected, saving both time and resources. For more information, visit our and pages. For more information on licensing, please see our or contact: Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe User profile Solutions for integrated health information system User-friendly software is key to the success of interRAI systems. We license software vendor to deliver solution to end users. Currently, more than 30 software company around the world provide interRAI licensed products, including solution for clinicians, professionals, managers, and government agencies. interRAI system support global interoperability across software platform and FHIR-HL7 applications. Learn more about our vendor . For more information on software licensing, please see our . For more information on licensing, please see our or complete our Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe User profile Better assessments, better care Let your voice be heard with the help of interRAI solutions. Our system feature both interviewer and self-report assessment tool and can be used across health and social care settings. The instrument are person-centered and focus on your ability and area for improvement. The result are easy to read by all the people involved in your care, meaning it becomes a more holistic and individualized experience. For more information, visit our and pages. For more information on licensing, please see our or contact: Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe About u About interRAI About u interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Our network strives to promote evidence-informed clinical practice and policy decision-making. We maintain high quality standards. Each instrument represents the result of rigorous research and testing to establish the reliability and validity of items, outcome measures, assessment protocols, case-mix algorithms, and quality indicators. interRAI Worldwide The map show both interRAI Member country and where interRAI instrument have been purchased and are in use. Contact For information about the interRAI organization, it research, Fellows, or licensing interRAI content, please contact: or call and leave a voicemail. If you need assistance ordering interRAI printed book or ebooks, please contact: Email: Tel in the US: Tel outside the US: Languages We typically issue new instrument and manual in English. Our instrument have been translated into many languages, including Spanish, French, German, Chinese languages, Korean, Japanese, Icelandic, Italian, Dutch, Estonian, Norwegian, etc. Fellows assist in translating our instrument into native languages. In the published manual can be searched by language Licensing For more information on licensing, please complete our We actively pursue partnership with organization and government that wish to adopt our tools. Use is permitted only by written license with interRAI; the purchase of a Users manual doe not provide a use license. Licensing usually requires royalty payment for use of our intellectual property either by software vendor or government/care providers, and requires the sharing of fully-deidentified data with interRAI solely for research purposes. Researchers use of our tool solely for research study requires a license, but usually doe not require royalties. Revenues are used solely for research and development purposes, enabling interRAI to develop new system and update those that are already in use. As a nonprofit corporation under the US Tax Code, interRAI hold the copyright to our assessment systems, including those for long-term care facility (MDS Version 2.0 and 3.0 are in the public domain only within the United States), home care, palliative care, mental health (outside of Canada), intellectual disability, acute care, child and youth, and quality of life, among others. The scales, algorithms, and case-mix measure based on these assessment instrument are not copyrighted and are thus available to everyone, although the individual item on which they are based are copyrighted. The major clause of our royalty-free license include: the instrument is not to be changed substantially (except individual identifier and demographics), although additional item can be added; only licensed translation can be used; the instrument will not be incorporated into product to be sold to or paid for by others; the organization will make appropriate effort to inform others of the copyright status of the instrument; interRAIs logo and copyright notice are to appear on the form and any other publication; authors, author institutions, and translator (as appropriate) are to be acknowledged in any document where author would usually be listed; electronic data from use of the instrument are to be shared with interRAI, subject to existing law on confidentiality and data use. Use of interRAI system usually requires royalties. Licenses usually pertain to individual instrument and nations. Software vendor are usually required to: develop method to sublicense the interRAI instrument to users; imbed export routine in their software to enable data-sharing, including with interRAI; implement user report for scale and other algorithms; avoid mounting interRAI licensed product on the open web. We will be pleased in any license negotiation to acknowledge the participation of individual or organization that have played a substantial role in getting the instrument to the point of implementation. For more information on licensing, please contact: Software Search our list of Vendors with contact information and the interRAI software they produce. Repository If you are an interRAI Fellow or an authorized Vendor you may click on the link below to access the interRAI Repository, a Microsoft Office 365 SharePoint site. You will be prompted to log in with your interRAI Repository username and password. Click here to Log in to If you need assistance, please contact . We will respond a quickly a possible within one business day. A help file in PDF format is available for Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Articles News interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa Awarded Prestigious Canada Research Chair in Integrated Care for Seniors March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the research lead at the DeGroote School of Medicine at the University of Waterloo Regional Campus. I am honoured to be nominated and awarded aCanada Research Chair in Integrated Care for Seniors. The chair will help me and my team to expand important initiative that will help align our health system with the rapid demographic shift taking place, Costa says. The Canada Research Chairs program attracts and retains a diverse cadre of world-class researcher to reinforce academic research and training excellence in Canadian postsecondary institutions. Chairholders aim to achieve research excellence in engineering and the natural sciences, health sciences, humanities, and social sciences. They improve our depth of knowledge and quality of life, strengthen Canadas international competitiveness, and help train the next generation of highly skilled people through student supervision, teaching, and the coordination of other researcher work. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Articles News interRAI Treasurer, Board Member Dr. John Hirdes Named to the Order of Canada January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemedfor his contribution to evidence-based health care practice and policy, notably through the research and development of standardized assessment and decision support tools. Dr. Hirdes is interRAIs senior Canadian fellow, a Board member, Treasurer, and the chair of both it International Network for Mental Health and the interRAI Network of Canada. He also serf a a Professor in the University of Waterloo School of Public Health Sciences and is a fellow of the Royal Society of Canadaand theCanadian Academy of Health Sciences. Having chaired the Universitys Committee on Student Mental Health (CoSMH), Dr. Hirdes is known for his research in geriatric assessment, mental health, health care and service delivery and health information management. Dr. Hirdes recently ha pioneered translation, adoption and use of interRAI instrument in India and Africa. He received a2022 University Professor designationat the University of Waterloo. Dr. Hirdes career ha been dedicated to making mental healthcare and geriatric service evidence-informed, more efficient and effective in his home of Canada and worldwide, said Dr. Brant E. Fries, president of interRAI. He is also passionate about sharing his knowledge through collaborative research. We are proud of the work Dr. Hirdes ha accomplished and to see it recognized by one of Canadas highest honours. interRAI assessment system are utilized by researcher and health professional in over 40 country for care planning, outcome measurement, resource allocation, quality improvement, and policy development. These system are used across the continuum of care and with person of all age from newborn to centenarians. Its a privilege to contribute to making the quality of life better for vulnerable population in a country that welcomed my family and me many year ago, Hirdes said. Collaborating and doing our best to make health care better either through direct hands-on clinical practice or through population and system level intervention ha been incredibly fulfilling. Im excited and humbled to be appointed a a Member of the Order of Canada. Hirdes is among 78 new appointment to the Order of Canada made by Her Excellency the Right Honourable Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada. Every year since 1967, the rank of the Order of Canada have been enriched by the appointment of new member whose contribution reverberate in community across the country and beyond.Members contribution reverberate in community across the country and beyond. Through their exemplary commitment, they inspire and challenge u to join them in making Canada a better country. About interRAI interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 40 country committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex needs. Our network strives to promote evidence-informed clinical practice and policy decision-making. We maintain high quality standards. Each instrument represents the result of rigorous research and testing to establish the reliability and validity of items, outcome measures, assessment protocols, case-mix algorithms, and quality indicators. To learn more, please visit . Media Contact: Heather Caouette RAE Communications Tel in the US: 866-595-5055 Tel outside the US: +1-978-546-8475 Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Articles News interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart Appointed to Canadian Nurses Association (CNA) December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination reflect career of sustained impact across nursing and health systems. CNAs mission is to advance the nursing profession to improve health outcome in Canadas publicly funded, not-for-profit health system. It is the only national association that speaks for all type of nurse across all Canadian province and territories. CNA established the Canadian Academy of Nursing a the first pan-Canadian organization dedicated to identifying, educating, supporting, and celebrating nursing leader across all domain of practice. The Academys Fellowship program recognizes Canadas most accomplished nurses. about CNA and this year class of Fellows. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Comprehensive Assessment Instruments Acute Care and Rehabilitation Acute Care (AC) The AC is for adult admitted to the acute care setting. It identifies clinical, functional, and psychosocial problems, including syndrome such a delirium, dementia, and under-nutrition, and patient at risk of adverse events. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsYes Acute Care for Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (AC-CGA) The AC-CGA support geriatric consultation service across acute care settings. It capture the entire episode of care with pre-morbid, admission, ongoing review, and discharge assessments. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsYes Community Rehabilitation Assessment (CRA) The CRA instrument, currently being finalized, is for person receiving rehabilitation in community settings. It combine self-report and clinical assessment strategies, thus lessening assessment burden and engaging the person more fully in the rehabilitation experience. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsYes Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsNo Post-Acute Care and Rehabilitation (PAC) The PAC is for in-patient rehabilitation and post-acute settings. It can also be used for patient coming directly from the community. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsYes Adult and Elderly Care Check-Up (CU) The CU address the need and status of person living independently in the community. It may be used in primary care, outpatient clinic or program designed to keep older people healthy and active. The CU ha an interviewer version and a self-reported version. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsYes Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes (with supplement) Quality IndicatorsNo Community Health Assessment (CHA) The CHA support assessment of older and disabled adult living in a range of settings, from independent residence to assisted living. The CHA is designed to minimize the assessment process. Everyone receives the core assessment; only those with specific issue will trigger one or more supplements. Supplements (can be used with other instrument a well): The interRAI Functional Supplement The interRAI Mental Health Supplement The interRAI Assisted Living Supplement The interRAI Deafblind Supplement SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes (with Functional supplement) Quality IndicatorsYes Home Care (HC) The HC evaluates the needs, strengths, and preference of person in home and community care settings. It focus on the person functioning and quality of life and facilitates referrals. The HC can be used to ass person with chronic need for care a well a those with post-acute care needs. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsYes Intellectual Disability (ID) The ID ass the needs, strengths, and preference of person with intellectual or developmental disabilities. It is intended to be used with adult of all age in community, residential, and institutional settings. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsYes Long-Term Care Facilities (LTCF) The LTCF evaluates the needs, strengths, and preference of person in chronic care settings, e.g., nursing homes. The assessment measure key domain of function, mental and physical health, social support, and service use. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsYes Palliative Care (PC) The PC ass the needs, strengths, and preference of person in palliative care or hospice. It is suitable for use in both community-based and facility-based programs. The PC provides a full assessment, while the Palliative Care Hospice (PC-H) is designed for person with a short-term prognosis. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsNo Child and Youth interRAI Child and Youth Mental Health Instrument and Adolescent Supplement (ChYMH) The ChYMH is the main tool in the Child and Youth Suite of instrument in community and mental health setting (age 4 to 18 years). The Adolescent Supplement is completed for youth 12+ year of age. The ChYMH is primarily designed for child up to age 18 years, but can be used up to age 21. Conversely, the interRAI CMH and ID are primarily designed for adult 18 and over. The decision of which instrument to use child or adult for those 18 to 21 can based on the service accessed. For example, for a youth accessing service within a high school or when other child assessment have been done prior, the youth assessment system are recommended. However, if a person aged 18 to 21 is first being assessed and can be expected to continue receiving service in coming years, it would be better to begin with the adult instruments. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsNo interRAI Child and Youth Mental Health Instrument for Developmental Disabilities (ChYMH-DD) The ChYMH-DD is for child and youth with intellectual or developmental disability in community and mental health care settings. The Adolescent Supplement is completed for youth 12+ year of age. The ChYMH-DD is primarily designed for child up to age 18 years, but can be used up to age 21. Conversely, the interRAI CMH and ID are primarily designed for adult 18 and over. The decision of which instrument to use child or adult for those 18 to 21 can based on the service accessed. For example, for a youth accessing service within a high school or when other child assessment have been done prior, the youth assessment system are recommended. However, if a person aged 18 to 21 is first being assessed and can be expected to continue receiving service in coming years, it would be better to begin with the adult instruments. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsYes interRAI Child and Youth Pediatric Home Care (PEDS-HC) The PEDS-HC target child with special health care challenges. It ass the care need of child and youth (age 4 to 20 years) who are seeking or receiving long-term support and services. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)No Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsNo Mental Health Addictions Supplement (AS) The AS is a companion to the CMH and MH. It evaluates the need of person with substance use and comorbid mental ill-health. The AS help in understanding the severity of addiction. No separate Manual published: use CMH manual SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentNo Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsNo Community Mental Health (CMH) The CMH is a standardized assessment system for clinician in community mental health settings. This instrument is designed to incorporate the person needs, strengths, and preference when assessing the key domain of function, mental and physical health, social support, and service use. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsYes Emergency Screener for Psychiatry (ESP) The ESP is for acute mental health emergency screening with a 24-hour observation period. It can be used in hospital settings, emergency departments, and mobile crisis teams. The ESP focus on the immediate presence of risk and safety (e.g., harm to self, others). SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsNo Forensic Supplement (FS) The FS is designed specifically to be used in jails, correctional centers, and prisons. The FS measure mental health symptom and related care need of inmates. No separate Manual published: use MH manual SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentNo Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationNo Quality IndicatorsNo Mental Health for In-Patient Psychiatry (MH) The MH evaluates the needs, strengths, and preference of adult with mental illness in in-patient psychiatric settings. It ass key domain of function, mental and physical health, social support, and service use. SPECIFICATIONS Comprehensive assessmentYes Self reported versionsNo Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs)Yes Outcome scalesYes Case-mix classificationYes Quality IndicatorsYes Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Screeners Screeners triage decision-making for defined target groups. A screener provides key clinical information needed at the onset of service provision. Brief Mental Health Screener (BMHS) The Brief Mental Health Screener (BMHS) assist front-line police officer and community service provider to prioritize care for person with immediate mental health concerns. Child and Youth Mental Health Screener (ChYMH-S) The Child and Youth Mental Health Screener (ChYMH-S) identifies service urgency and the need for a comprehensive mental health assessment for child aged 4-18 years. Contact Assessment (CA) The Contact Assessment (CA) support the home care intake process. It prioritizes the urgency for comprehensive assessment, home care services, and rehabilitation. COVID-19 Vulnerability Screener (CVS) The CVS identifies person who may be especially vulnerable during the pandemic. It can be filled in by the person or administered over the phone, or in-person. Emergency Department Screener (ED) and Contact Assessment (ED-CA) The Emergency Department Screener (ED) and Contact Assessment (ED-CA) enable rapid screening and assessment of older adult in the emergency department. The ED is available free in App stores: search interRAI ED Screener. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Assessment Guidance This guideline describes how clinician-administered community-based interRAI assessment such a the interRAI Home Care and interRAI Community Health Assessment may be completed remotely through live video stream in exceptional circumstances, such a the COVID-19 global pandemic. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Quality of Life Quality of Life instrument capture the person day to day experience including their care, autonomy, privacy, participation in activities, comfort, and safety. Results may be used to inform change to a person support and services. Organizations can use result to adjust a person care plan a well a to establish person-reported experience measure (PREM) to drive quality improvement. Self-Reported Quality of Life Child and Youth Mental Health (SQOL-ChYMH) The Self-Reported Quality of Life Child and Youth Mental Health (SQOL-ChYMH) includes the child (ages 7 to 18) perception of life satisfaction and well-being before and after receiving mental health services. Self-Reported Quality of Life (QOL) The Self-Reported Quality of Life (QOL) includes the person's perspective on autonomy, privacy, comfort, relationships, and meaningful activities. Self-Reported Quality of Life Survey for Mental Health and Addictions (QOL-MHA) The Self-Reported Quality of Life Survey for Mental Health and Addictions (QOL-MHA) includes the person's perspective on personal outlook, autonomy, self-determination, empowerment, privacy, stigma, and activities. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Applications Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAPs) CAPs (Clinical Assessment Protocols or Collaborative Action Points) support continuity of care planning by providing common protocol across settings. A unique automated feature of interRAI systems, CAPs are based on systematic review of international literature and our large data holdings. CAPs are not intended to automate care planning; rather, they are designed to engage the person and clinician in a dialogue to support collaborative decision-making. CAP structure Problem description Overall goal of care Triggers to facilitate improvement / prevent decline Guidelines Additional resource CAPs manual can be purchased from the interRAI Print Catalog. CAPs are also built into all licensed software solutions. Available CAPs manuals: Adult/Elderly Care Palliative Care Adult Mental Health Child and Youth Mental Health Intellectual Disability Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Applications Status and Outcome Scales Embedded within each interRAI instrument are various scale and index that can be used to evaluate an individual clinical status. These scale have been carefully researched, ensuring that they are comparable to conventional gold standard measures. Following are the most widely used status and outcome measure developed by interRAI working groups. Physical Function Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Hierarchy ADL Short Form Scale ADL Long Form Scale Functional Hierarchy Scale Instrumental ADL (IADL) Capacity Hierarchy Scale IADL Performance and Capacity Scales Cognitive Function Cognitive Performance Scale 1 Cognitive Performance Scale 2 Social Function Communication Scale Deafblind Severity Index Social Engagement Mood & Behavior Aggressive Behavior Scale CAGE (for problem drinking) Depression Rating Scale Depression Severity Index Mania Scale Positive Symptoms Scale Risk of Harm to Others Severity of Self-Harm Scale Self-Care Index Social Withdrawal Scale Health Status CHESS Scale (Changes in Health, End-stage disease, Symptoms and Signs) Falls Risk Scale Fracture Risk Scale Pain Scale Pressure Ulcer Risk Scale Child and Youth Activities Of Daily Living Scale Aggressive Behaviour Scale Anhedonia Scale Anxiety Scale Depressive Severity Index Disruptive Aggressive Behaviour Scale Distractibility/Hyperactivity Scale Externalizing Problem Scale Family Functioning Scale Internalizing Problem Scale Parenting Strengths Scale Peer Conflict Scale Positive Symptoms Scale Risk of Harm to Others Scale Risk of Injury to Others Risk of Suicide and Self-Harm in Kids Severity of Self-harm Scale School Disengagement Scale Sleep Scale Youth IADL Capacity Scale Youth IADL Performance Scale Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Applications Quality Indicators Care provider and government use Quality Indicators to monitor and improve the quality of care within and across organizations. QIs are pointer that indicate potential problem area that need further review and investigation. interRAI QIs: Can be derived directly from the assessment instrument Process and outcome indicator Prevalence and incidence measure Include risk adjustment Home Care Home Care Quality Indicators (HCQIs) include over 20 indicator covering the following domains: nutrition, medication, incontinence, ulcers, physical function, cognitive function, pain, and safety/environment. Institutional Care Several generation of nursing home Quality Indicators (QIs) are used worldwide. The latest version of interRAI QIs include over 30 indicator for short and long-stay residents. These quality measure show way in which nursing home are different from one another. Mental Health The 27 MHQIs reflect the clinical outcome and safety of mental health services. Domains include mental health symptoms, behaviours, cognitive performance, daily functioning, physical pain, interpersonal conflict, and restraint use. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Applications Resource Allocation Case-mix system classify people into group that are homogeneous in their resource use. They also provide meaningful clinical description of individual in a group. Case-mix can be applied to reimbursement, for comparing population within/across program and settings, and for staffing. Home Care Resource Utilization Groups-III and Home Care (RUG-III/HC) For adult home care setting Long-Term Care Facilities Resource Utilization Groups-III (RUG-III) For adult long-term care setting Mental Health System for Classification of In-Patient Psychiatry (SCIPP) For adult in-patient psychiatric settings, including acute, long stay, forensic, and geriatric psychiatry unit Intellectual Disability Case-Mix Groups for Developmental Disability (CMGDD) For adult home and community-based service setting Child and Youth Mental Health Resource Intensity for Child and Youth Algorithm (RIChY) and Child and Youth Resource Intensity Algorithm (ChYRI) For setting serving child and youth with mental health or developmental disability Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Applications Screening and Risk Algorithms MAPLe (Method for Assigning Priority Levels) MAPLe, derived from the Home Care instrument, differentiates service seeker into five level based on their risk of adverse outcomes. Research ha demonstrated that individual in the highest level are nearly nine time more likely to be admitted to a long- term care facility than are the lowest level. MI Choice MI Choice, derived from the Home Care instrument, group individual in one of five categories: nursing home, home care, intermittent personal care, homemaker, and information & referral. The screen can be done over the phone (thus reducing costs) to identify person who are not likely to meet health, cognitive, and functional criterion for home care or institutional services. Assessment and Service Urgency The assessment urgency and service urgency algorithm are both derived from the Contact Assessment. They address the person need for comprehensive assessment and initiation of community services. They can also be used in hospital emergency department or community/hospital intake. DIVERT The DIVERT is a risk scale for unplanned emergency room trips. Higher score in the scale (1 to 6) indicate higher risk for unplanned emergency department use. ChAMPs The six-level ChAMPs algorithm is used to inform the need and urgency of timing for a comprehensive face-to-face mental health assessment or service for child and youth between the age of 4-18 years. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Research Social Media | Twitter Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Research How Systems Develop A comprehensive interRAI assessment instrument consists of: A data collection form A user manual Triggers Clinical Assessment Protocols, or CAPs Status and outcome measure interRAI instrument are built on a core set of assessment item that are considered important in all care settings. These common item have identical definitions, observation time frames, and scoring. Additional item specific to a particular care population or care setting are then added to the core item set. interRAI ISD Committee (Instrument and Systems Development) All instrument undergo a systematic review process before being approved. This also pertains to an updated version of an existing instrument. This work is done by the interRAI ISD Committee that meet regularly to develop, review, and approve new instruments, status and outcome measures. Because each of the instrument in the interRAI family is in a different stage of maturity, not every instrument system in the suite necessarily contains all of these features. However, every interRAI system go through a careful, scientifically based development process to develop instrument and decision support measures. These step are summarized below. Consulting with Front-Line Clinicians and Experts Each interRAI system begin with conversation about the key clinical issue that should be assessed for a given population. Many point of view, including those of policymakers, advocates, consumers, and purchasers, are sought out to ensure that the information collected on a given instrument ha utility for a many audience a possible, while keeping the size of the instrument within bound for everyday use. Testing interRAI development team carry out extensive trial to ensure that published version of each instrument are valid and reliable. In addition, clinical trials, study of clinical acceptability, and longitudinal study of care outcome are done to test the instrument in real-life settings. Only after such work is done is the instrument considered ready for implementation in everyday clinical processes. This judgment is made by the interRAI ISD Committee. Developing Companion Applications interRAI research team develop a variety of other evidence-informed applications, such a telephone screeners, quality indicators, and case-mix systems, using data generated from a given instrument. Turning data into information render it useful to a variety of audiences, including regulators, payers, and policymakers. Creating CAPs A key aspect of interRAI assessment system is written material designed to assist those involved in care planning to consider major issue triggered by the assessment. Typically these are referred to a CAPs (Clinical Assessment Protocols or or Collaborative Action Points). Each assessment protocol ha been produced by a team of expert authors, drawing on empirically tested strategy whenever possible. Assessment protocol help the clinician think through what is known about a given issue, how the problem is experienced by the individual, and why it is present. Assessment protocol also examine possible prevention and treatment options, and help the assessor evaluate whether a referral for further evaluation is needed. Providing Code to Enable Automation interRAI host a geek squad that maintains production code for core scales, CAPs, and other standard application of interRAI data used across our assessment systems. Licensed vendor and licensed user can access the code, written in SAS programming language. Ongoing Quality Improvement interRAI ha an ongoing commitment to update our product a scientific knowledge changes, a the need of health care consumer change, and a the health care system itself changes. Each version of a system ha a unique number, for example, interRAI HC v.9.x. New version will contain improvement in item structure, measurement definitions, CAP triggers, etc., identified from previous research and practice. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Research Projects SHELTER study Validated the interRAI Long Term Care Facilities assessment in 7 European country and Israel. SHELTER established the first cross-national database on Nursing Home resident in Europe. ADHOC study Validated the Minimal Data Set for Home Care 2.0 a a methodology to ass provision of home care in Europe with a consortium of 11 countries. IBenC study Developed a method to identify best practice for older home care recipients, by benchmarking the cost-effectiveness of care delivered by agency in Europe with 9 partner from 6 countries. I-CARE4OLD study Improves prognosis and estimation of treatment impact for older care recipient home care recipient and nursing home residents. The consortium of 14 partner from 8 country develops individualised decision support. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe News & Research Newsletter Subscribe to the interRAI Newsletter Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe About u Getting Started Implementing an interRAI Assessment System In response to many inquiries, weve outlined some of the key issue to be addressed if your organization is interested in adopting an interRAI assessment system. Implementation of an interRAI System Will Be a Major Reform for Your Organization The adoption of an interRAI assessment system is likely to represent a significant change in how the organization doe business. It is not simply a matter of taking a new set of data collection form and replacing the old ones. To realize their full potential, interRAI system depend on competent, well-trained assessors, responsive software systems, and appropriate administrative support. A successful implementation will likely require new resource at least at startup, and maybe indefinitely and careful planning over a period of at least several months. Licensing with interRAI All end user need to obtain a (free) license from interRAI to use our assessment systems. There are two kind of licenses: Research User The interRAI Web site give a general overview of the two . We recommend that the licensing process begin immediately, a experience show that this can be a time-consuming task in large organizations, where many party must review and sign off. Licensure must be final before the implementation go live. Are Suitable Resources Available? interRAI system require personnel to conduct assessments, data entry personnel (ideally, the assessor), and software and administrative support staff. If your goal is simply replacing an existing software-based assessment system, then the resource requirement may not extend beyond the purchase of software. However, in many situations, implementation will represent a considerable investment in people, skills, software, and hardware that necessitates new financial resources. Implementation may also require some reconfiguration of workforce and staff skill sets. While interRAI system often require investment in assessment personnel, this may be balanced by reduction in other staff due to efficiency of the interRAI system and the move to an electronic environment. As a result, careful appraisal of resource need is required. It is important to note that the use of a paper-based approach is generally inadequate, a a critical strength of interRAI system is the extensive range of secondary clinical decision support tool that can be automatically calculated with software. Will Potential Participants Be Screened? Many entity screen potential participant to decide whether the person would benefit from a full assessment. The screen may be of your own design or may employ a screen developed by interRAI. In either case, it is essential to plan the rollout of the screen system. Some of the decision that will need to be made include: Who will do the screen? Will the screen be done face-to-face or over the telephone? Will the screen be computerized or performed on a paper form? If the latter, who will design the physical form and scoring instructions? How will screener be trained? What quality initiative will the organization deploy to measure reliability of screener activities? What is the plan when a later full assessment is performed and the person is found not eligible or appropriate? What is the Implementation Plan for the Assessment Process? Some of the decision for the rollout of the full assessment system are similar to those needed in planning a screen implementation. The following is an initial list of considerations: Who will do assessments? How will Information flow? Who need assessment data and in what format? What paperwork and duplicative process can your organization eliminate by deploying the system? How will assessment data be linked to service cost or other internal records? How will raw data be transformed into information useful for policy or program administration purposes? How will assessor be trained? Who will provide training on three fundamental training topics: assessment tool basics, care planning, and the computer system? Does the timing of training enable assessor to begin to use the system immediately to prevent de-training? Does the training plan address assessor turnover? Will you develop or acquire any competency testing to establish/maintain reliable, high-quality assessment data? Will there be a pilot to shake down implementation procedures? Who will be available to answer assessment question that arise? Computer questions? Selecting a Software System Software system are integral to the effective implementation of any interRAI system. Your organization must make important choice early in the planning process. Some entity choose to develop their own solutions, but the majority purchase system available commercially or use a system developed under the auspex of their government. Development of your own solution is challenging, but ha the advantage of being customized to your own agency culture. The decision to make or buy is complex, and we do not offer specific advice. However, we do offer suggestion about what to look for in an interRAI software solution. Each software vendor must hold a license to distribute software in each nation. Check that your potential vendor hold a license for your country. Look for the following core component in a software system: Is the data entry section customized to your nation, particularly the administrative sections? For clinicians: Does the software generate a full array of available scale and other decision support measures? Does the software generate a list of triggered clinical assessment protocol (CAPs)? Does the software generate a clinical profile (or snapshot) of the assessed person that brings together the key observations, scales, and CAPs in an easy-to-read format? Summaries may be useful for many audiences, including other clinicians, care providers, family members, a well a the person being assessed. For administrators: Does the software generate quality indicator and case-mix tools, if they are available for the system that you are planning to implement? Does it easily export data that may be required by government or other higher level bodies? Is it compatible with other software system in use within your organization or network? Please note that interRAI doe not recommend particular software vendors. It is your responsibility to appraise alternative carefully. Our indicates the nation and system for which vendor are licensed. interRAI is able to add system to vendor license fairly promptly if requested by the vendor. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe About u Organization Board of Directors Brant E. Fries, President u Harriet Finne-Soveri, Executive Vice President fi Shannon Stewart L., Secretary ca John Hirdes, Treasurer ca Len Gray au John N. Morris u Anja Declercq be Hein van Hout nl interRAI Networks interRAI NETWORK FOR ACUTE CARE (iNAC) Chair: Len Gray interRAI NETWORK FOR MENTAL HEALTH (iNMH) Chair: John Hirdes interRAI NETWORK FOR INTEGRATED CARE & AGING (iNICA) Chair: Anja Declercq interRAI NETWORK FOR CHILD AND ADOLESCENT HEALTH (iNCAH) Chair: Shannon L Stewart Committees Instrument and Systems Development Committee (ISD) Chair / Vice Chair: John Morris / George Heckman Strategic Planning and Operations Committee (SPOC) Chair: Harriet Finne-Soveri Website and Information Committee (WIC) Chair: Magnus Bjrkgren Training Committee Chair(s): Mary James/Brigette Meehan Country Websites Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe About u Awards and Honors 2023 Dr. John Hirdes Appointed , elected by his peer for outstanding scholarly, scientific, and artistic achievement. Appointed to the for his contribution to evidence-based health care practice and policy, notably through the research and development of standardized assessment and decision support tools. Dr. Veronique Boscart Appointed to the prestigious , reflecting a career of sustained positive impact across nursing and health system in Canada. Drs. Shannon L. Stewart, Samir Sinha Appointed to the esteemed , one of the highest honour for individual in the Canadian health science community, carrying with it a covenant to serve the Academy and the future well-being of the health sciences. 2022 Dr. Samir Sinha Selected a runner-up for the Media Engagement Award Trailblazer. This award honour a Canadian doctor who is leading change in healthcare through medium and social medium communication a an individual doctor at the grassroots level. Drs. , , Selected to join , an opportunity to work together to improve the life of older people, their families, and the community in which they live. These three interRAI member are among the 50 individual worldwide that the UN ha selected a inspirational exemplar of global leader working to transform the world to be a better place to grow older. Dr. John Hirdes Promoted to at the University of Waterloo, a prestigious lifetime appointment which recognizes his career to date including excellence in monitoring of all his trainees, students, and staff, and his substantive scientific contributions. Dr. Hongsoo Kim Selected a a member of the on measurement, monitoring, and evaluation of the United Nations Decade of Healthy Ageing. Dr. Vivian Lou Promoted to full professor at the University of Hong Kong. Dr. Vincent Mor Awarded Brown Universitys , recognizing Mor for the impact of his service, leadership and research over four decade at Brown, a well a for his devotion to the health and well-being of individual and to the public good. Dr. Graziano Onder Promoted to full professor in Palliative Care Medicine at the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart in Rome, beginning November 1, 2022. 2021 Fourteen interRAI member Received a a participant in a for Individualized CARE for Older Persons with Complex Chronic Conditions at home and in nursing homes, to develop a new generation of prognostic algorithm using machine learning technique on linked interRAI repositories. interRAI member are: Roberto Bernabei, Johanna De Almeida Mello, Anja Declercq, Daniela Fialov, Harriet Finne-Soveri, Brant Fries, Jacob Gindin, George Heckman, John Hirdes, Elizabeth P. Howard, John N. Morris, Graziano Onder, Katarzyna Szczerbiska, and Hein van Hout. 2019 Dr. Brant Fries Received the 2019at the University of Michigan tohonor his extraordinary distinction in public service by member of the University faculty. Dr. Chris Perlman Awarded two grant from the Canadian Institutes for Health Research that will make use of interRAI data: Grant 1 (with Dr. Lynn Martin a a Co-PI) to develop a decision support tool for patient in inpatient psychiatry based on RAI-Mental Health; Grant 2 (with Dr. Shannon Stewart a a Co-investigator) to examine trend in cannabis use among person admitted to inpatient psychiatry in Ontario. Dr. Shannon Stewart Awarded funding from the Public Health Agency of Canada to examine the influence of trauma-informed care training on the type of care provided and outcome for child and youth who have experienced trauma life events. Dr. Katarzyna Szczerbiska Elected to the position of the Secretary General of the International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics for the European Region (IAGG-ER) the largest association in the world devoted to gerontology. 2018 Dr. Ron Hoffman and Dr. Lynn Martin Awarded fund from the Ontario Ministry of Community and Social Services to study adult with intellectual and developmental disability who are admitted to an inpatient psychiatric setting after being involved with the criminal justice system. Dr. Chantal Van Audenhove Received a medal from the Flemish community for many year of excellent policy and practice-oriented research on care for vulnerable people. 2017 Dr. Veronique Boscart Received the 2017 Sigma Theta Tau International, Lambda Pi-At-Large Chapter, Dorothy M. Pringle Award for Excellence in Research, acknowledging the importance of nursing research to the development of nursing science and to nursing practice. Dr. Hongsoo Kim Promoted to tenured full professor at Seoul National University Graduate School of Public Health, South Korea. Dr. Melinda Martin-Khan Awarded a prestigious $1.86m Australia National Health and Medical Research Council grant to implement the new interRAI Acute Care system in up to 8 Australian hospitals. 2016 The Cognitive Performance Scale (CPS) Reached milestone of 20 year in use a one of interRAIs most mature and effective applications. Dr. Andrew Costa Received funding of $688,051 CAD from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research with a team of co-investigators including Drs. Veronique M. Boscart, George A. Heckman, John P. Hirdes, and Samir K. Sinha, for Phase 1 of the DIVERT-CARE (Collaboration Action Research & Evaluation) Trial of cardio-respiratory disease management in home care in three Canadian provinces. Dr. Brant Fries Awarded an honorary Doctorate of Laws from the University of Waterloo in recognition of his contribution to society in Canada, the US, and elsewhere in the world, a President of interRAI a fitting honour for one who ha helped and supported everyone who belongs to interRAI. Dr. Fries wa also awarded the Impact Accelerator Award by the Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation (IHPI), University of Michigan. interRAI Participated on a team including CIHI, Health Canada, First Nations Inuit Health Branch, Alberta Health Services, Alberta Health, and Momentum Healthware that won the Canadian Health Informatics Awards for Innovation and Care Delivery for the introduction of the interRAI Home Care assessment system to all First Nations community in Alberta. Dr. Vincent Mor Awarded the Mary K. Ousley Champion of Quality Award for his contribution to quality in the long term and post-acute care community by the American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living (AHCA/NCAL). Dr. Charles Phillips Promoted to Editor-in-Chief of Health Services Insights, an open access journal published by Libertas Academica. Dr. Shannon Stewart Won, with her team, the Amethyst Award (Canadas highest recognition of service excellence) for their work in developing the interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Assessment instruments. 2015 Dr. Katarzyna Szczerbiska Elected a Treasurer of the Executive Board of the International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics for the European Region (IAGG-ER), the largest association devoted to gerontology within clinical, biological and psycho-social section; it includes 40 gerontology or geriatric society from 34 European country involving 23,623 members. 2013 Dr. Shannon Stewart Awarded approximately $600,000 from the Canadian Institute of Health Research (CIHR) a recipient of The Partnerships for Health System Improvement grant entitled, Connecting youth in custody with mental health services, which will fund the interRAI Youth Justice instrument pilot project. Dr. Katarzyna Szczerbiska Promoted to Associate Professor of Medicine in the specialty of Geriatrics and appointed to position of Head of Unit for Research on Aging Society at Chair of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Medical Faculty, Jagiellonian University, Krakw, Poland. 2012 Dr. Anja Declercq Promoted to Associate Professor in the Faculty of Social Sciences of the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium. Dr. Brant Fries Signed a Memorandum of Understanding with WHO regarding collaboration on four projects. Dr. Jacob Gindin (with the help of Dr. John Morris) wa instrumental in the execution of the agreement; Dr. John Hirdes is also involved in one project; Jacob and John Morris visited Ghana to begin another of the projects. Dr. John Hirdes Recognized with the national honor of the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee medal for his leadership in the development and adoption of interRAI tool to enable the delivery of high-quality home care and community care service across Canada. Dr. John Hirdes Received the University of Waterloo Award for Excellence in Graduate Supervision, recognizing his excellence, described with the award a a mentor, an advisor, a role model, a humanist and a strategist. A caring and effective supervisor [who] posse a high level of energy and ingenuity. Dr. Plmi Jnsson Granted tenure for his current position (Professor of Geriatrics) at the University of Iceland, Faculty of Medicine. 2011 Dr. Vincent Mor Received the Distinguished Investigator Award from AcademyHealth for his work focusing on the factor associated with variation in use of health service and the outcome of the frail elderly and chronically ill experience. Dr. Charles Phillips Named a standing member of the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Qualitys (AHRQ) Healthcare Effectiveness and Outcomes Research (HEOR) study section. Dr. Katarzyna Szczerbiska Received a special Profutura award. Dr. Liv Wergeland Srbye Promoted to Professor after the evaluation of her scientific work, teaching and supervision experience and achievement at the Diakonhjemmet University College, Oslo, Norway. 2010 Dr. Len Gray, Dr. Rich Jones, Dr. Melinda Martin-Khan Awarded a grant (A$280,000) by the Queensland Emergency Medical Research Foundation a part of a team led by Dr. Ellen Burkett at the Centre for Research in Geriatric Medicine at the University of Queensland in Australia for a project focused on developing a quality framework for frail older people in Emergency Departments. Dr. Charles Phillips Received a $1.4M grant from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to develop and implement a strategy to reduce C. difficile among nursing home resident while working with the American Institutes for Research and the Texas Medicare Quality Improvement Organization on this project. 2009 Dr. Plmi Jnsson Promoted to the first full Professor of Geriatric Medicine within the Faculty of Medicine at University of Iceland. Dr. Vincent Mor Received the Public Service Award from The National Consumer Voice for Quality Long-Term-Care (NCCNHR) for his series of study revealing racial and socioeconomic inequality in nursing home care in the United States. Dr. Charles D. Phillips Awarded a Regents Professorship from the Texas A&M University System Board of Regents. With Dr. Catherine Hawes, awarded a Regents Professorship in 2006, this distinguishes them a only the second faculty couple in the Texas A&M University System to both be named Regents Professors. Dr. Miel Ribbe Honored on behalf of Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of Netherlands a Officer in the Order of Orange-Nassau for founding and leading the department of Nursing Home Medicine during it 20 year at VU Medical Centre, Amsterdam. Dr. Knight Steel Received the 2008 Spirit of Planetree Physician Champion Award. 2008 Dr. Jeff Poss Won an Age+ award from the Canadian Institute for Health Research (Institute on Aging), for his doctoral dissertation on RUG-III/HC for excellence in research in aging by emerging scholar in Canada. Dr. Catherine Hawes Elected to the National Policy Council for American Association of Retired Persons (AARP). Dr. Brant Fries Received an $800K contract from the State of Michigan to use the interRAI MH instrument to ass psychiatric problem in prison to determine the need for and provision of psychiatric service among prisoner statewide. Drs. Greg Brown, John Hirdes, and Howard Barbaree are consultant on this project. Dr. Len Gray and Dr. John Morris Awarded a significant research grant from The Academic Unit in Geriatric Medicine at the University of Queensland, Australia to develop a suite of Quality Indicators for care of the frail elderly in acute care. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Speaking One Language for High Quality Care Worldwide User profile interRAI Worldwide interRAI instrument have been mandated by government in several country including Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Finland, a well a many US states. The map in the link show where and how the interRAI instrument are being used. Watch Our WebTV CATEGORIES 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study FEATURING Dr. Bon Egbujie Dr. Adrian Wagg Dr. Melissa Northwood 33:53 English 1/11 video 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING John P. Hirdes Margaret Saari 32:53 English 2/11 video 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Hao Luo Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Kathleen De Cuyper Chantal Van Audenhove Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes 33:08 English 3/11 video 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Gary Cheung Tina M. Mah Yoram Barak John P. Hirdes 32:01 English 4/11 video 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Ron Hoffman Jeffrey Harman Heidi Kinsell Gregory Brown 27:47 English 5/11 video 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Janell A. Klassen Shannon L. Stewart Natalia Lapshina 26:49 English 6/11 video 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Howard E. Barbaree Krista Mathias Brant E. Fries Greg P. Brown Shannon L. Stewart Elke Ham John P. Hirdes 28:23 English 7/11 video 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Angela Celebre Shannon L. Stewart Laura Theall Natalia Lapshina 23:50 English 8/11 video 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Johanna de Almeida Mello Hao Luo, Alice Hirdes Jyrki Heikkil Benoite Umubyeyi Darius Gishoma Margaret Saari John P. Hirdes Chantal Van Audenhove 22:31 English 9/11 video 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Elizabeth P. Howard Lynn Martin George A. Heckman John N. Morris 33:07 English 10/11 video 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions Innovations in the Mental Health Applications of interRAI Assessments FEATURING Jeffrey Poss Lori Mitchell Jasmine Mah Janice Keefe 38:54 English 11/11 video 1Predictors of Improvement in Urinary Incontinence in the Post-Acute Setting: A Canadian Cohort Study 2Mood Disturbances Across the Continuum of Care Based on Self-Report and Clinician Rated Measures 3interRAI Subjective Quality of Life Scale for Mental Health and Addiction Settings 4Determinants of Non-emergency Use of Control Interventions in Older Canadian Psychiatric Inpatients 5Costs and Savings Associated with the Police Use of the interRAI Brief Mental Health Screener 6School Disengagement and Mental Health Service Intensity Need Among Clinically Referred Students Utilizing the interRAI ChYMH Instrument 7The Forensic Supplement to the interRAI MH Assessment Instrument: Evaluation and Validation of the Problem Behavior Scale 8An Examination of Correlates of Quality of Life in Children and Youth with Mental Health Issues 9An international pilot study of self-reported quality of life in outpatient and inpatient mental health setting 10Does the Person-centered Care Model Support the Needs of Long-term Care Residents with Serious Mental Illness and Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities? 11Disparities in Utilization of Psychiatry Services Among Home Care Clients: The Tale of Two Canadian Jurisdictions 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery FEATURING Dr. Shannon Stewart Dr. Jeff Poss 26:11 English 1/4 video 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument Geriatrician George Heckman speaks about experience in using the Check-Up tool in primary care and retirement home in Canada. FEATURING George Heckman MD Magnus Bjrkgren Ph.D 08:27 English 2/4 video 3How interRAI Instruments Develop Instrument System Development (ISD) committee, the vehicle for approving new interRAI instrument and tools. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 17:33 English 3/4 video 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments From screening tool to comprehensive assessment in mental health. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 14:56 English 4/4 video 1The interRAI Child and Youth Suite of Instruments: An Integrated approach to Mental Health Service Delivery 2interRAI Check-Up Self-Report Instrument 3How interRAI Instruments Develop 4interRAI Mental Health Instruments 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale FEATURING John P. Hirdes, PhD FCAHS Gustavo Bettini, PhD Nigel Millar, MD 35:50 English 1/2 video 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? Discussing quality of care, what it is, and how to measure it. FEATURING John Morris Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:23 English 2/2 video 1Using interRAI Assessments for Emergency Management: Vulnerable Persons Risk Scale 2How Should we Assess Quality of Care? 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada Improving quality of care using interRAI quality indicator and benchmarking. FEATURING John Hirdes Ph.D Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 11:50 English 1/13 video 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? The experience of using interRAI assessor with different educational background in New Zealand and Finland. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 12:46 English 2/13 video 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure The use of interRAI scale in New Zealand and Finland for care planning and quality improvement. FEATURING Brigette Meehan Ph.D, Med Harriet Finne-Soveri, Ph.D, MD 19:51 English 3/13 video 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? What we have, that nobody else has, are instrument that go across different sectors. FEATURING Brant E Fries Harriet Finne-Soveri 04:01 English 4/13 video 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa A lot of people just want to be heard. Many living in the community have health problem that are not being addressed. FEATURING Robyn Black Leon Geffen 03:28 English 5/13 video 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope In Africa we have the double burden of long-term care and transmitted diseases. Therefore, we need good data that can help clinicians, managers, and decision-makers. FEATURING Emmanuel Bagaragaza 02:35 English 6/13 video 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture We like working with people who are passionate about improving care. FEATURING Katherine Berg Caitlin McArthur 03:34 English 7/13 video 8Why did you become an interRAI member? I wanted to create my own instrument but then somebody pointed me to inter - Improved patient outcomes, improved care processes, I wa really impressed. FEATURING Lynn Martin Hein Van Hout 03:48 English 8/13 video 9The power of standardized health data in hospital Bringing interRAI into the hospital allows u to make data collection more efficient. Hospitals have a tradition of documenting in their own way but could benefit from more standardized documentation. FEATURING Samir Sinha Nathalie Wellens 04:55 English 9/13 video 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong interRAI provides a platform for organization to communicate using a common language and where information doe not get lost. FEATURING Palmi Johnsson Terry Lum 03:09 English 10/13 video 11interRAI network for Mental Health We are trying to use good quality evidence to make a huge impact on the life of vulnerable people living with mental health concerns. FEATURING John Hirdes Alice Hirdes 03:57 English 11/13 video 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:10 English 12/13 video 13What is the best thing about interRAI? Interviewing delegate at the interRAI World Conference 2020 in Leuven, Belgium. 01:06 English 13/13 video 1Quality Improvement Initiatives in Finland and Canada 2What can we learn from training interRAI assessors? 3From comprehensive assessment to using different scale and measure 4Why wa interRAI started and why it is unique? 5The success of self-reported instrument in South Africa 6interRAI promotes the value of sharing data and hope 7The physiotherapy perspective interRAI assessment give the therapist the big picture 8Why did you become an interRAI member? 9The power of standardized health data in hospital 10Important policy question in Iceland and Hong Kong 11interRAI network for Mental Health 12Why are you here at the interRAI conference? 13What is the best thing about interRAI? March 15, 2024 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Andrew Costa ha of appointment a the in Integrated Care for Seniors. Costa is an associate professor and Schlegel Research Chair in the Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and the January 17, 2024 Dr. Hirdes recognized for his work advancing health care practice and policy ANN ARBOR, Mich.January 17, 2024, a global consortium of researcher committed to improving care for vulnerable person with complex need is proud to announce the appointment of Board member and Treasurerto the esteemed December 8, 2023 interRAI is proud to announce that interRAI Fellow Veronique Boscart, RN, MScN, MEd, PhD ha been appointed to the prestigious . The Canadian Academy of Nursing inducted 21 remarkable nurse for this year class of Fellows. Fellows are among the most accomplished nurse in Canada, and their successful nomination Mission and Vision interRAI is committed to improving health care across the globe. Whether youre a community member, care professional, administrator, or policy-maker, our goal is to provide you with reliable, high-quality data that is easy to interpret and share. Through rigorous research and testing, we ensure the reliability and validity of our system and continuously strive to improve our tool usefulness by, for example, making them available in many languages. Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: interRAI Improving Health Care Across The Globe Accessibility If you have special need to access this site or interRAI content, please call u at 866-595-5055 (in US) or +1-978-546-8475 (outside the US), or email . Care planning with the help of CAPs! Learn how to interpret information collected with an interRAI instrument. interRAI is a collaborative network of researcher and practitioner in over 35 country committed to improving care for person who are disabled or medically complex. Instruments Applications News & article About u Help WEB DESIGN: