IHE is an initiative by healthcare professional and industry to improve the way computer system in healthcare share information. Vision: Enable seamless and secure access to health information that is usable whenever and wherever needed Mission: IHE enables health system and care delivery network to adopt interoperable digital workflow that support evidence- and value-based health services. IHE develops workflow-based interoperability specification and provides testing and validation capability that support the governance of health IT ecosystem a the foundation for health systems, care delivery network and industry to improve health outcomes. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standard such a DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical need in support of optimal patient care. IHE brings together healthcare IT system user and developer to address interoperability issue that impact clinical care. Education: IHE ha created a set of information resource and tool for vendor and user of healthcare information system to help them integrate system and share information more effectively. Resources and Tools Search the site Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) IHE is an initiative by healthcare professional and industry to improve the way computer system in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standard such a DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical need in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care provider to use information more effectively. and improve the interoperability of healthcare information systems. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) IHE is an initiative by healthcare professional and industry to improve the way computer system in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standard such a DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical need in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care provider to use information more effectively. and improve the interoperability of healthcare information systems. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Membership IHE International is composed of that are stakeholder in improving the interoperability of health information systems. Member organization participate in IHE in a variety of ways, including designating representative to and relevant to their interests. Join over 100 organization dedicated to improving healthcare system interoperability. Membership Benefits Your membership support the following benefit For the health IT community Free access and use of the Free access to information from Free access to the and Connectathon and Conformity assessment testing service (separate fee) For IHE Member Organizations Recognition on the IHE.net Website and in IHE promotion Use of IHE membership logo Access to global membership directory Access to informative webinars Participation and voting right in IHE committee IHE domain committee IHE International Board election Testing and Tools Committee Domain Coordination Committee (DCC) Global Deployment Coordination Committee (GDC) Marketing and Communications Committee Advance information on events, conference and workshop Most importantly, a a member of IHE International, you are part of a vital organization spanning the globe and the continuum of care. You are an active participant in IHEs pragmatic approach to achieving standards-based interoperability in real-world healthcare solutions. IHEs mission is to build on the foundation we have established to: Broaden stakeholder engagement Increase awareness and adoption of interoperability standards, including IHE profile Strengthen support for IHE members, committees, and international deployment organization Broaden testing service to improve product and deployment success Enhance IHEs independence, governance and capacity a a financially self-sustaining entity 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Benefactors Why become a Benefactor? IHE International is dedicated to developing use case-driven, standards-based technical specification (IHE Profiles) that enable health IT system to communicate and interoperate effectively. That work is supported by a tiered membership model of stakeholder in health information technology. By enrolling a a benefactor, your organization will demonstrate it commitment to IHEs mission, independence and sustainability. Benefactor status entitles your organization to the right and privilege enjoyed by all member organizations, including: Recognition on the website of IHE International () Use of IHE membership logo Access to global membership directory Access to informative webinars Participation and voting right in IHE committees, including: IHE domain committee IHE International Board election Testing and Tools Committee Domain Coordination Committee (DCC) Global Deployment Coordination Committee (GDC) Marketing and Communications Committee Advance information on events, conference and workshop Additional Benefactor Facts Any member organization of IHE International can elect to become a Benefactor Annual fee of $25,000 for any size or category Participate a non-voting member of IHE International Board Placement of organization logo on IHE Internationals website, publication and regular communication Support the mission, independence and sustainability of IHE International Join IHE Internationals initial Benefactors in advancing interoperability across the healthcare ecosystem! To learn more, contact . Thank you to our Benefactors! 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Join IHE International is an organization that enables user and developer of information technology for healthcare to achieve interoperability of system through the precise definition of healthcare tasks, the specification of standards-based communication between system required to support those task and the testing of system to determine that they conform to the specifications. The work is managed by IHE committee and sponsored by various national and international bodies, a described in the IHE Principles of Governance, available at www.ihe.net/governance/. IHE International is composed of Member Organizations interested in improving the interoperability of healthcare information systems. An organization that becomes a member of IHE International may designate representative to participate in Domain Committees, National/Regional Deployment Committees and other committee relevant to it interests. The IHE International Board shall review each application submitted and notify the primary contact regarding approval or rejection of the application within 60 days. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Renew 1. Log in to your Member Account by clicking the Member Login button at the upper right corner. If you have forgotten your login information, click the Forgot Password button on the login page. Provide your email address and the system will send you your username and a link to reset your password. (The system will only send email to the primary contact listed for your organization. To change the primary contact, or if you need any help logging in, contact u at ) 2. Click the Invoices and Payments tab in your Member Account. The system will take you to the payment page where you can see your due invoice and pay by credit card. If you have question about the invoice, or wish to pay by check or wire transfer, please contact u . While you are in your IHE account, take the time to review your profile information and make sure it is correct and complete. You can also upload an organizational logo file. Your profile information will appear in our IHE Member Listing web page. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IHE Certified Professional Program The IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) provides professional certification, supporting individual in demonstrating their IHE-related knowledge. Overview The IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) wa developed to offer individual opportunity to prove their knowledge of IHE. Basic information about the organization of the IHE-CPP is provided below. The IHE-CPP Scheme The IHE-CPP Scheme is consistent with ISO/IEC 17024, Conformity assessment General Requirements for Bodies Operating Certification of Persons. The Scheme consists of the following elements: Process definition Guarantees quality, transparency, fairness and accountability of the exam operation and certification process Exam related definition Syllabus: Business- and Learning outcome and content of the exam Exam question and passing criterion The IHE-CPP Scheme is under the governance of IHE International, primarily the which is responsible for reviewing the Scheme (including the syllabus and exam materials, the process and certification mark) and approving it for use. The Exam Subgroup is set-up by the Education Committee and is responsible for developing, collecting and maintaining exam questions. Together with IHE Services, theOperator of the IHE-CPP is responsible for overseeing the organization of examination by accredited exam provider and offered in multiple formats. It also ensures the operation of the certification process, including registration and invoicing of applicants, issuing certificates, accrediting Training Courses, etc. The figure below show the key role in executing the IHE-CPP. IHE-CPP process document A detailed description of the IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) scheme and process definition is available in the document: IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) Process Definition. Certifications awarded After successfully passing the examination, participant receive an IHE Certified Professional Certificate for the particular exam taken. For example, those successfully passing the first exam offered, the IHE Foundations Exam, will receive the IHE Certified Professional IHE Foundations certificate. This certificate will be issued by theOperator of the IHE-CPP on behalf of IHE International and is globally valid for a designated period that varies by exam. Before a credential expires, certificate-holders may take a re-certification exam to renew it to maintain the certified since status. Rights associated with an IHE Certified Professional exam Certification entitled the certified person to display theIHE-CPP logo with the textual expression of the certification achieved (e.g., IHE Foundations) in association with the name of the certified person on: personal business cards; personal e-mail- or letter signatures; organizational staff section of web sites; marketing or sale material; offers, answer to tenders; presentation The set of right associated with an IHE Certified Professional certificate is described in the IHE-CPP process document (see chapter IHE-CPP process document). Taking an exam Exams are available worldwide and can be booked viaour partner exam provider . GASQ offer the following method for taking an exam: Exams via remote proctoring A proctor monitor the whole exam by webcam Exam must be taken in an empty room on own personal computer Applicant register on website and schedule an appointment with a live remote proctor Appointments are possible all day (24/7) Payment is done online via credit-card On-site exam Individual Exam are offered by GASQ or in accredited exam center Done on-site at the center, personally proctored Appointments can be individually scheduled Payment: Via exam center Group exam Exams are offered in conjunction with a training and organized by the training provider Exams are taken a a group (class-room setting) Payment: Via training provider Exams at IHE Events If you organize a local IHE Exam in your region, you might want to offer an exam a well for a service to your local community If you are interested, please contact: We are happy to support you with information material and guidance! Preparing for an exam You can prepare for an exam either by self-study or with the help of course provided by training providers. While attending a training course may improve your chance of success on an exam, training is not a prerequisite. The main source of information in preparing for an exam is the syllabus specific to that exam. Accredited Training Courses and Providers The following have obtained the IHE-CPP Accreditation and are thereforerecommended for preparing to an IHE-CPP exam. Become an accredited training provider Training provider interested in accrediting a Training Crouse for an IHE-CPP exam should contact the IHE secretary: . The requirement and process for accreditation of a Training Course is described in the IHE-CPP process document (see chapter IHE-CPP process document). IHE Foundations Exam Target group The IHE Certified Professional IHE Foundations Level Exam is tailored to the need of professional in health IT who work with product based on IHE profiles. This includes those employed by healthcare provider organization or software development company or working a consultant in system integration. The certification is designed to reach a broad target group. Goal After passing the exam, participant will be able to apply the IHE methodology (ISO/TR 28380) for developing interoperability specification for an existing healthcare environment. The course will enable participant to acquire the skill needed to identify and use the appropriate existing IHE profile when faced with a healthcare interoperability project. Learning Objectives 1. Orientation on the IHE organization This module cover general information on Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise, it mission and vision, a well a it organizational structure. Furthermore, it demonstrates task and responsibility of IHE internal unit and the role of external stakeholders. IHE specific principle of governance are also described in detail in the chapter. 2. IHE Methodology This chapter aim to provide information of the main concept and document structure of IHE Technical Frameworks, a well a the annual IHE review and development cycle used in each of the nine IHE clinical and operation domains. 3. Locating and navigating through IHE resource IHE offer a large variety of technical document to support planning and implementation of IT system in healthcare, a well a a wealth of development and educational materials. This module target the ability to find the needed information from the available array of option and use it accordingly. 4. IHE Example profiles, base standards, general healthcare IT knowledge This chapter is designed to provide knowledge and comprehension of the standard for communication among IT system using IHE profiles. Participants will learn the basic regarding the technical environment of selected IHE profile and the technologies, standards, and security requirement used in them. 5. Accelerate Health Information Exchange deployment In addition to technical standard and requirements, legal and organizational issue must be addressed during the integration of process and IT systems. This module demonstrates the use of IHE Interoperability Use Case Deployment Methodology to support real world deployment. Exam detail The format of the exam is multiple-choice. The exam duration is 60 minutes, the number of question is 40. Additional time can be allowed for non-native English speakers. Validity period of the certificate for this exam: 5 years. Exam Syllabus For the detailed Syllabus of the IHE Foundations exam please refer to the . Accredited Training Courses for this exam For a list of accredited Training Courses to this exam see chapter Accredited Training Courses an Providers. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Webinars Inside IHE Webinar Series 2020 Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leader of IHE standard development activity to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholder and prepare developer and implementers to leverage IHE solution to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Information and registration for upcoming webinars and recording of past presentation are provided below. Links to previous year webinars are provided in the menu at left. Inside IHE: IT Infrastructure (ITI) Dates and time TBD Presenters TBD Description TBD Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) Date and time July 27, 2020; 10:00 am 11:00 am CT Presenter Franois Macary, PaLM Technical Committee Co-chair, PHAST Description Overview of available profiles. Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Dates and time TBD Registration Coming Soon Presenters TBD Description TBD Inside IHE: Devices (DEV) Patient Care Device (PCD) Presenter Rob Wilder, Senior Product Manager at Spok, IHE PCD Planning Committee Co-Chair Description This session will cover the purpose and use of profile within the patient care device (PCD) sub-domain. Areas of focus will include important device interoperability function such a the transfer of patient vitals information to their health record, automated programming of infusion pump devices, location service function with patent care devices, handling of device alarm and wave form communications. All profile will be covered including PIV, DEC, ACM, MEMLS, MEMDMC, IDCO, RDQ and WCM. We will also cover the value of the NIST testing tool and Rosetta terminology mapping used with these profiles. Dates and time Personal Connected Health; Recording will be posted when available Presenter Thomas Erickson, MSBA, BSEE HIMSS Description Personal Health Devices Observation Upload IHE Devices: One Domain, Three Communities Recording will be posted when available Brief Recap of the re-constituted, re-branded domain Covers the One Domain single PC/TC, TF, etc. Covers the three programs: PCD, PCH & DPI Covers the value proposition of having all three working together in IHE IHE-HL7 Gemini Project: Device Interoperability Recording will be posted when available Recap Gemini Brief on the SDPI+FHIR project Include relationship to the rebranded IHE Devices & (now) HL7 Devices group + the DPI Program home for the SDPI work Inside IHE: Pharmacy Dates and time TBD Registration Coming Soon Presenters TBD Description TBD Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Recording Link Presenters TBD Description TBD Inside IHE: Radiology Presenters Kinson Ho, Principal Architect, Enterprise Imaging, Change Healthcare Luciano Prevedello, MD, MPH, Vice Chair, Medical Informatics & Augmented Intelligence in Imaging, the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center Kevin ODonnell, Sr. R&D Manager, Connectivity, Standards & Integration, Canon Medical Research USA Christopher Lindop, GE Healthcare Teri Sippel Schmidt, Adjunct Professor, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University Description With the rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) in medical imaging, the ease of integration of these new technique to existing radiology reading workflow and succinctly integrate the AI result in the reading study context become increasingly critical for their success. In this session, attendee will learn the two new AI related integration profiles, AI Results (AIR) and AI Workflow for Imaging (AIW-I). The attendee will also hear about some upcoming activity related to these new AI profiles. Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology Recording Link Presenters TBD Description TBD 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site 2014 Webinars IHE International Educational Webinar |Introduction to the IHE International Public Comment & Call for Proposals Process Tuesday, June 10, 2014 3:00pm 4:00pm CT Speaker: Lisa Nelson, MSc, MBA, Principal Consultant Lantana Consulting Group Join the IHE Internationals IT Infrastructure, Patient Care Coordination, and Quality Research & Public Health domain for an overview on the IHE International Public Comment and Call for proposal processes. By the end of this Webinar, participant will be able to: Submit a Profile proposal in the upcoming 2015 Call for Proposal Cycle Whats New in ITI 2014: IHE IT Infrastructure Connectathon and Domain Snapshot Tuesday, June 17, 2014 9:00am 9:30am CT Speakers: Gila Pyke, IHE ITI Technical Committee Co-Chair, Cognaissance; Lynn Felhofer, IHE NA Connectathon Technical Manager, IHE USA By the end of this Webinar, participant will be able to: Relate product or project to new and existing profile using IHE resource Plan for 2015 North American and European Connectathons using the schedule and material provided Update on IHE Lab Activities Thursday, June 19, 2014 9:00am 9:30am CT Speaker: Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC | By the end of this Webinar, participant will:Understand how integrating more laboratory function into electronic data exchange is achieved. Understand IHE Profiles in use around the world. HIMSS Interoperability Showcase & IHE NA Connectathon 2015: An Introduction Wednesday, June 25, 20148:30am 10:00am CT Wednesday, June 25, 2014 2:30pm 4:00pm CT Speakers: Sandra L. Vance, MHA, Senior Director, Interoperability Intiatives, HIMSS; Celina Roth, Manager, Informatics, HIMSS Prepare your team for interoperability testing at the IHE North American Connectathon 2015 and successful demonstration at the HIMSS15 Interoperability Showcase. This presentation is designed to educate new participant on the impetus and structure of the Connectathon and Interoperability Showcase. Learn what it take to get involved, the benefit of participation, and how to engage through the IHE USA and HIMSS registration process. To learn more about the IHE NA Connectathon, visit . IHE Cardiology Domain Update Wednesday, July 30, 2014 9:00am 10:00am CT Speakers: Nick Gawrit, Heartbase; Chris Melo, Philips, Antje Schroeder, Siemens Healthcare | This session will provide an update on current activity of the IHE Cardiology Domain including an introduction of two new profiles: Electrophysiology Report Content (Implant/Explant) Registry Content Submission CathPCI V4.4 IHE Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Domain Update 2014 Thursday, July 31, 2014 9:00am 10:00am CT Speakers: Tone Southerland, Standards and Interoperability Architect, Ready Computing; Denise Downing,Perioperative Nursing Specialist, Informatics, Association of periOperative Registered Nurses | This session will provide an overview of the IHE PCC domain including current activity and roadmap items. Two profile developed for Trial Implementation 2015 will be reviewed and along with a white paper. Multiple Content Views (MCV) Reconciliation of Clinical Content and Care Providers (RECON) A Data Access Framework using IHE Profiles (DAF) IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Domain Update 2014 Friday, August 8, 2014, 10:00am 12:00pm Speakers:Michelle Williamson, CDC/NCHS;Vijay Shah, JBS International, Inc.;Johanna Goderre, HHS Office of Population Affairs;Brittani Harmon, CDC;Lori Reed-Fourquet, eHealth Signs;Wendy Blumenthal, CDC; John Eichwald, CDC;Lisa Nelson, MSc, MBA, Lantana Consulting Group;Landen Bain, CDISC; Alana St. Clair, CDISC; Didi Davis, Serendipity Health | This session will provide an overview of the IHE QRPH domain including current activity and profile developed for Trial Implementation. 10:00-10:05 Introduction Michelle Williamson 10:05-10:15 Structured Data Capture (SDC) Vijay Shah, JBS International, Inc. Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the Structure Data Capture (SDC) profile that will help understand use structured set of data that can be accessed from EHRs and be stored for merger with comparable data for various purpose e.g. electronic Case Report Form, adverse event reporting, collecting information for determination of coverage, etc. See how SDC Forms can be used to collect information in a more uniform and systemic manner and how that collected data can be submitted to the end system in a light-weight manner keeping the form context information. Discover how using SDC Profile make sharing information across various domain more efficient and more effective. 10:15-10:20 SDC Q&A 10:20-10:30 Family Planning Johanna Goderre, HHS Office of Population Affairs Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the family planning profile that will help provider capture structured data critical for a range of reproductive and sexual health clinical performance measure and how their electronic health record system can interoperate with quality reporting data systems. 10:30-10:45 Vital Events Reporting Michelle Williamson, CDC/NCHS and Lori Fourquet, eHealth SignsLearning Objective: Attendees will learn about two IHE profiles: Birth and Fetal Death Reporting-Extended (BFDR-E) and Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR) that support pre-population of data from electronic health record system to form and enable interoperability with state electronic vital registration system for birth, death and fetal death reporting to meet Federal, state and local government reporting requirements. The primary driver for implementation is to improve the timeliness, quality and accuracy of vital statistic data that are widely used to monitor and improve the nation health. 10:45 10:55 Healthy Weight Brittani Harmon, CDC;Lori Reed-Fourquet, e-HealthSign Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the Healthy Weight profile that support capture and communication of information supporting care management and population health monitoring of healthy weight. Flexibility in the capture and communication of structured data allows for multiple implementation approach to maximize the ability to communicate healthy weight information. This includes support for communication of Occupational Health information and healthy weight risk factors. 10:55 11:00 Cancer Reporting Wendy Blumenthal, CDC Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the IHE Profile Physician Reportingn to a Public Health Repository Cancer Registry (PRPH-Ca) that support implementation of standardized transmission of data about a patient cancer case from an ambulatory healthcare provider EHR to the public health central cancer registry. The primary purpose for implementation is to increase the security, completeness, timeliness and accuracy of cancer surveillance data for improved public health. 11:00 11:15 Early Hearing Detection and Intervention John Eichwald, CDC; Lisa Nelson, MSc, MBA, Lantana Consulting Group Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about a new Hearing Plan of Care profile that will help provider capture hearing screening result and information about the newborn and create a plan of care that provides clinical decision support to clinician performing follow-up care. See how information captured by hearing screening device and electronic medical record system can be used to produce standard Hearing Plans of Care. Discover why using new Hearing Plan of Care standard make sharing information with Public Health and care provider more efficient and more effective. 11:15 11:35 PH Profile Q&A 11:35 11:50 Research Profiles and White Papers Landen Bain, CDISC; Alana St. Clair, CDISCLearning Objective: Attendees will learn about a set of six IHE profile that were co-developed with CDISC, a Standards Development Organization in the medical research space which ha worked with QRPH for a number of years. These profilesCRD, DSC, RPE, DEX, RM comprise a body of work which CDISC call Healthcare Link, the intent of which is to create all the capability needed for EHR-enabled research. 11:50 11:55 Research Profiles and White Papers Q&A 11:55 12:00 Timeline and Next Steps Didi Davis IHE Patient Care Device (PCD) Domain Update Thursday, August 14 3:00-4:00pm CT Speaker: Jeff McGeath, Sr. Exec. VP Software Solutions | This session will provide an update on the PCD Domain activity from the past year. A brief review of the entire PCD Domain capability will be followed by more in depth review of new work effort that have been accomplished. New topic this year include: MEMDMC Equipment Management MEMLS Location Services IHE North American Connectathon 2015: Registration Kick-off Monday, August 25, 2014 1:00pm 2:30pm CT Speakers: Elizabeth Peters, MBA, Associate Manager, Interoperability Intitiatives, Celina Roth, Manager, Informatics, HIMSS Prepare your team for the IHE North American Connectathon 2015 and successful demonstration at the HIMSS15 Interoperability Showcase. This presentation is designed to educate new and returning participant on the registration process, key deadlines, and preparation required for system registration opening August 25, 2014. Dont miss out on the largest interoperability testing event in the industry. IHE Radiology Domain Update Wednesday, September 3, 2014 10:00am 11:00am CT Speakers: Christopher Lindop, GE Healthcare; Antje Schroeder, Siemens Healthcare; Brad Genereaux, Agfa Healthcare This session will review the IHE Radiology Profiles which the Radiology Committee is promoting for testing at the IHE 2015 Connectathons. The session includes two new profile developed for trial implementation this year. Digital Breast Tomography (DBT) Mobile access to Health Documents for Imaging (MHD-I) There will be an open Q&A to allow for question to help developer and user to understand how to implement and use the profile in practice. UNDERSTANDING NEW DIRECTIONS: WHY YOU SHOULD BE INVOLVED? Wednesday, September 24, 2014 10:00am 11:00am CT Speaker: Michael Nusbaum, Program/Technical Manager, New Directions Program, IHE USA Panelists: Alex Lippitt, Celina Roth, Sarah Willis-Garcia Learn more about New Directions programming, test offerings, and how to get involved. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site 2015 Webinars IHE International Webinars 2015 The presentation linked below were presented a a series of webinars by IHE domain committee and technical manager in 2015. They provide update on recently developed IHE profile intended to help implementers, especially those preparing for IHE Connectathon and Conformity Assessment testing. IHE Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Domain Update 2015 Thursday, June 11, 2015 11:00 am 12:00 pm CT Speakers: Tone Southerland, Standards and Interoperability Architect, Ready Computing; Laura Heerman Langford, Director of Nursing Informatics, Intermountain Healthcare PCC Overview: Understand PCC vision, mission and strategic goals. Understand new PCC profile publishes this cycle. Understand how to get involved in PCC committee work. IHE IT Infrastructure Domain and Connectathon Snapshot Monday, June 22, 2015 12:00 pm 1:00 pm CT Speakers: Lynn Felhofer, ITI Technical Project Manager; Gila Pyke, IHE ITI Co-chair, Cognaissance IT Infrastructure Overview: Whats new this year? ITIs family of profile How to participate in IHE IHE International Membership Planning & Technical Committee High-level 2016 Connectathon information Q&A IHE Eye Care Domain Wednesday, June 24, 2015 9:00 am 10:00 am CT Speakers: Don Van Syckle, on behalf of the American Academy of Opthalmology Eye Care Overview: To highlight the new and important development in the IHE Eye Care Domain. To provide a high level overview of the new profile and use case for IHE Eye Care 2015. IHE North American Connectathon 2016 and HIMSS16 Interoperability Showcase: An Introduction Thursday, July 16, 10:00 am 11:00 am CT Overview: Targeted toward new participants, this presentation will educate potential participant on the impetus and structure of the and . Learn what it take to get involved, the benefit of participation, and how to engage throughout IHE USA and HIMSS registration processes. ! IHE Radiology Profiles and Scheduled Workflow Update Tuesday, July 21, 2015, 10:00 am 11:00 am CT Speakers: Teri M. Sippel Schmidt, MS, Karos Health; Michael Bohl, MHA, BS, CEP, Radiology Group, PC, SC; Kinson Ho, MMath Architect, Agfa Health; Chris Lindop, GE Healthcare Radiology Learning Objectives: CDS-OAT: Learn how the use of Clinical Decision Support tool for Ordering Physicians information is used in Radiology and how PQRS legislation is changing in the U.S. Understand the clinical use case of where and when clinical decision support may be used when an order is created or changed Obtain a high level overview of the key technical aspect of the CDS-OAT profile Learn how the CDS information flow from order entry to reporting and charge posting WIC: Learn how to enhance your web / mobile viewer to go beyond just viewing study Learn how a client application can use a web API to store captured image that can be integrated with the rest of the image archive Learn a high level overview of the key technical aspect of the profile SWF.b Enterprise Identity Option: The SWF.b Enterprise Identity Option provides a mechanism to reference and remap Patient IDs from different Assigning Authorities across an enterprise Learn how OP, DSS/OF, Modality, Image Manager and other actor are all affected by this Option IHE Patient Care Device (PCD) Domain Update Tuesday, July 21, 2015, 12:00 pm 1:00 pm CT Speakers: Monroe Pattillo, IHE PCD Planning Committee Co-Chair, Practical Health Interoperability, LLC PCD Overview: Overview of IHE PCD domain and history Overview of existing PCD profile Current cycle PCD domain activity Future PCD domain activity Merger of IHE Anatomic Pathology and IHE Lab Domains: Preparing for the Future of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Wednesday, July 22, 2015, 9:00 am 10:00 am CT >Speakers:Mary Kennedy, Director of Clinical Informatics, College of American Pathologists;Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC, Contractor to Association of Public Health Laboratories;Raj C. Dash, MD, Vice-Chair, Pathology IT, Director, Laboratory Informatics Strategy, Medical Director, Laboratory Information Systems, Associate Professor, Department of Pathology, Duke Medicine Domain Overview: Identify the scope of practice for anatomic pathology and laboratory medicine Recognize the similarity across these scope of practice and the advantage of leveraging existing IHE profile Begin to explore the additional effort required to manage a single unified domain Gain awareness of profile available for testing at the 2016 NA Connectathon IHE Radiology Clinical Decision Support Order Appropriateness Tracking (CDS-OAT) Tuesday, August 4, 2015, 9:00 am 10:00 am CT Speakers: Teri M. Sippel Schmidt, MS, Karos Health; Michael Bohl, MHA, BS, CEP, Radiology Group, PC, SC; Jeremy Huiskamp; Julie Pekarek Updates from the IHE Cardiology Domain Thursday, September 3, 2015; 9:00 am 10:00 am CT Speakers: Antje Schroeder, Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair, Siemens Healthcare; Nick Gawrit, Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair, Heartbase; Alan Katz, MD, MS, FACC, FASE, Cardiology Planninecg Committee Co-chair, Vice President, Medical Informatics, Catholic Health Services of Long Island, Director, Cardiac Imaging ST Francis Hospital, and Associate Professor of Medicine, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York; Chris Melo, Interoperability Architect, Philips Healthcare; Charles Thomas, Project Manager, Cardiovascular Information Systems, Regional Heart Center University of Washington; Pamela Heller, Registry and BI Product Development; American College of Cardiology CardiologyLearning Objectives: Describe the current and recent profile developed by the Cardiology Domain. Identify five area of interest to the Cardiology Planning Committee. Discover opportunity to collaborate with other IHE Domains, a well a clinical organizations, and medical device vendors. IHE Pharmacy Domain Update Wednesday, September 9, 2015; 9:00 am 10:00 am CT Speakers: Jrgen Brandsttter, MSc, Co-chair PHARM Planning committee, CodeWerk Software GmbH, Austria;Leonidas Tzimis, PhD, Co-chair PHARM Planning committee, EAHP, Greece Pharmacy Overview: PHARM Learning Objectives: Understand PHARM vision, mission and strategic goals. Understand PHARM domain liaison and collaboration with HL7 and ISO. Overview of existing PHARM profile and Community and Hospital Pharmacy, including Community Medication Prescription and Dispense, Hospital Medication Workflow, Medication Treatment Plan Overview of other PHARM domain activities, including Supply Chain, EHIR Understandhow PHARM work benefit the pharmacists. How to get involved in PHARM committee work. IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Domain Update Friday, September 11, 2015, 10:00 am 11:30 am CT Speakers: Michelle Williamson, RN, MSIS, CPHIT, Co-Chair IHE QRPH Planning Committee, Senior Health Informatics Scientist, CDC/National Center for Health Statistics; Derek Ritz, P.Eng., CPHIMS-CA, ecGroup Inc.; Bob Joliffe, MSc, University of Oslo; Lara Tramontan, PhD, Arsenal.IT; Mauro Zanardini, MS, Arsenal.IT; Lisa R. Nelson, MS, MBA, Lantana Consulting Group; Xidong Deng, PhD, Centers for Disease Control; Lori Reed-Fourquet, eHealthSigns QRPH Learning Objectives: Attendees will learn about expressing integrated care pathway (ICP) using the Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) standard and how to employ IHE based HIEs to operationalize ICPs to provide valuable population health outcomes. Attendees will learn about a new DEX profile option to allow Research, Public Health, Epidemiology or Quality Reporting Organizations to query a clinical community for clinical data in a Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing (XDS) environment by understanding which data type are in which documents. Attendees will learn about building a standardized infrastructure using IHE profile to enable exchange of clinical data between healthcare provider and secondary user (such a research, population and health service management, and quality assurance) in a standard, privacy-enabled, reliable and secure way. Attendees will learn the use case scenario and challenge for the Public Health Newborn Hearing Screening quality measure and how to employ the profile to produce digital quality measure and the benefit of implementing QME-EH. Attendees will learn the use case surrounding aggregate data exchange (ADX) and how to use the profile to define and validate SDMX based jurisdiction-specific metadata using standardized tool and generate schema for ADX data payloads. Attendees will learn about capture and communication of care management and population health monitoring information for healthy weight and the ability to communicate occupational health information and risk factor for healthy weight. IHE North America Connectathon 2016: Registration Kickoff Monday, September 14, 10:30 am 11:30 am CT . 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site 2016 Webinars IHE 2016 Educational Series (Domain Updates) IHE Brazil IHE International Webinar Series: Introduction to IHE IT Infrastructure Profiles Leveraging IHE Workflow Profiles to Improve the Clinical Experience IHE 2016 Educational Webinar Series (Domain Updates) IHE annually present a series of free educational webinars. The series will help your organization learn about IHE; engage in IHE development and testing activities; and, leverage IHE solution to develop and implement interoperable health IT systems. Cardiology Topics Current project in development by the IHE Cardiology Domain How to introduce Cardiology profile in a care organization ACC Health Policy Statement addressing interoperability and IHE Speakers Alan Katz MD Catholic Health Services of Long Island, New York Cardiology Planning Committee Co-chair David Slotwiner MD Weill Cornell Medical College Cardiology Planning Committee Co-chair Nick Gawrit heartbase Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair Antje Schroeder Siemens Healthineers Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair Paul Dow American College of Cardiology Cardiology Domain Secretary Charles Thomas Regional Heart Center, University of Washington Chris Melo Philips Healthcare Pamela Heller American College of Cardiology Eye Care Topics Details of new IHE Eye Care Profiles Review of established profile Understand the goal and current activity of the IHE Eye Care Domain Speaker Don Van Syckle DVS Consulting IT Infrastructure(ITI) Topics IT Infrastructure overview ITIs family of profile Whats new this year How to participate in IHE High-level Connectathon overview Moderator Lynn Felhofer IT Infrastructure Technical Project Manager Speaker Ben Levy Corepoint Health Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) Topics Understand change to the PaLM Technical Framework (merging Laboratory and Anatomic Pathology) Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW) final text and other project update Speaker Riki Merrick, MPH Vernetzt, LLC/Association of Public Health Laboratories Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Topics Describe the history of the PCC domain Explain the vision, mission, and strategic goal of PCC and it relevance in IHE and health IT Describe the work accomplished by PCC over the most recent annual cycle Identify opportunity for your organization to participate in PCC domain activity and understand how to get engaged Speakers Tone Southerland Planning Committee Co-C/hair, IHE PCC Director of Strategic Consulting, Ready Computing Laura Langford, PhD, RN Planning Committee Co-Chair, IHE PCC Nursing Informatics, Intermountain Healthcare Patient Care Devices (PCD) Topics Update on PCD success over the last year PCD plan for next year Opportunities to participate Speakers Monroe Pattillo Practical Health Interoperability, LLC IHE PCD Planning Committee Co-Chair John Rhoads, PhD Intellectual Property & Standards, Phillips Group Innovation Pharmacy Topics Understand PHARM vision, mission and strategic goal Overview of existing PHARM Profiles for community and hospital pharmacy, including Community Medication Prescription and Dispense Hospital Medication Workflow Overview of other PHARM Domain activities, including Supply of Products for Healthcare Falsified Medicines Directive, Educational Article How to get involved in PHARM Committee work Speakers Leonidas Tzimis, PhD Co-Chair PHARM Planning Committee EAHP, Greece Jurgen Brandstatter, MSc Co-Chair PHARM Planning Committee CodeWerk Software GmbH, Austria Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Topics The interoperability challenges, use case scenarios, technical solution and benefit addressed by the following QRPH profiles: Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI) Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) Quality Measure Execution for Early Hearing (QME-EH) Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR) Moderator Laura J. Bright LJB, LLC QRPH Planning Committee Co-Chair Speakers Amit Popat Epic Michelle Williamson, RN, MSIS, CPHIT Senior Health Informatics Scientist CDC/National Center for Health Statistics Lara Tramontan, PhD Arsenal.IT Lisa R. Nelson, MS, MBA Life Over Time Solutions Lori Reed-Fourquet eHealth Signs Vijay Shah Deputy Director, Health IT Solutions JBS International, Inc. Radiology Topics Review of 2 new profile highlighted from last year work. Radiology Remote Reading Workflow (RRR-WF) Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Radiopharmaceuticals IHE-Japans National Extension Moderators Mike Bohl IHE Radiology Planning Committee Co-Chair Radiology Group, PC, SC Teri Sippel Schmidt IHE Radiology Planning Committee Co-Chair Karos Health, Inc. Speakers Charles Smith Numa Inc. Jeff Pohlhammer Philips Healthcare Kevin ODonnell IHE Radiology Domain Representative to the IHE International Board Toshiba Medical Systems Yasunari Shiokawa IHE Japan Toshiba Medical Systems IHE Brazil IHE International Webinar Series: Introduction to IHE IT Infrastructure Profiles Join IHE Brazil and IHE International for a series of three webinars designed to provide an introduction to IHEs IT Infrastructure (ITI) technical framework and widely implemented IT Infrastructure Profiles. IHE ITI Framework Introduction (Portuguese language only) Speaker Marcelo Santos Philips Research Introduction of IHE PIX/PDQv3 Profiles Speaker Benjamin Levy Corepoint Health Introduction of IHE XDS/Document Sharing Speaker Daniel Berezeanu Ready Computing Leveraging IHE Workflow Profiles to Improve the Clinical Experience IHE Profiles are the foundation of health IT interoperability, a key to improving the clinical experience for clinical staff and patients. IHE workflow profile have continually evolved over the past several year a the interoperability market continues to mature. Two workshop will discus how clinical and vendor implementers can implement IHE workflow-based profile in their health system and product and how IHE committee member can participate in authoring workflow profiles. Profile Authors Workshop Topics Connectathon Implications Profile Content Document Lifecycle Cross-Domain Examples Benefits of Involvement Speakers Mauro Zanardini Chris Pauer Amit Popat Implementers Workshop Topics Benefits of Workflow Profiles Types of Workflow Addressed From a Profile to a Product Architecture and Planning Understanding Requirements IHE Process Profile Review Speakers Daniel Berezeanu Tone Southerland Chris Pauer 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site 2017 Webinars Inside IHE Webinar Series 2017 Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leader of IHE standard development activity to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholder and prepare developer and implementers to leverage IHE solution to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Information and registration for upcoming webinars and recording of past presentation are provided below. Links to previous year webinars are provided in the menu at left. Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) Domain Overview Profiles in Final Text Profiles in Trial Implementation & Development Current Projects & Getting Involved Presenters Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC Raj Dash, MD, Professor and Vice-Chair for IT, Department of Pathology and Director, Laboratory Informatics Strategy & Medical Director, Laboratory Information Systems, Duke Health Description Understand the scope of the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Domain Learn what profile are currently being developed Learn what profile are available for testing at the Connectathons in 2017/18 cycle Inside IHE: Radiology Intro and MAP Profile SOLE Profile REM-NM Profile RD Profile WIA Profile (formerly MHD-I Inside IHE Radiology Slides Moderator Mike Bohl, Radiology Group PC SC Presenters Kinson Ho, Change Healthcare Kevin ODonnell, Canon/Toshiba Rob Horn, Agfa Teri Sippel Schmidt, Canon/Vital Description IHE Radiology will present some recent exciting profile that are available for trial implementation: Management of Acquisition Protocols (MAP) New Supplement published in 2017 The Management of Acquisition Protocols Profile support the collection of scan protocol from acquisition modalities, their review on a protocol manager and re-distribution to modalities. Standardized Operational Log of Events (SOLE) New Supplement published in 2017 The SOLE Profile defines a way to exchange information about event that can then be collected, analyzed and displayed using standard methods. Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Nuclear Medicine (REM-NM) Supplement published in 2016 REM-NM address tracking, reporting and management of radiopharmaceutical administered dose information in a manner similar to that already adopted for ionizing radiation via the REM Profile. Results Distribution (RD) Profile sends radiology results, i.e., a radiology report, to existing installed base systems. The result is defined with structured content to support other integrated profile requirements, such a follow-up of non-critical actionable findings.Results Distribution (RD) New Supplement published in 2017 IHE Radiology will also present some major upcoming change to existing profiles: WIA provides image sharing and interactive viewing of imaging study via RESTful services. It support different backends such a XDS-I and DICOM/DICOMweb.Web-based Image Access (WIA, formerly known a MHD-I) Inside IHE: Eye Care Domain Overview Unified Eye Care Workflow Profile (U-Eyecare) Content Profiles (GEE & EC-Summary) How to Get Involved & Resources Presenters Peter Scherer, Chief Information Officer ifa group of company Donald Van Syckle,President DVC Consulting, Inc. Description Understanding of how eye care information system (PMS, EMR) acquisition device and image management system seamlessly exchange patient identifiers, demographic data, scheduling information, images, reports, post charges, etc. within an eye care workflow scenario. Understanding how EMRs can exchange information captured during a patient general eye examination, plus the ability to capture/exchange a patient eye care summary. Inside IHE: Cardiology Interoperability: Guiding Principles & Needs Cardiac Workflow Profiles Cardiac Procedure Note Profile (CPN) Interoperability & Call for Proposals Presenters Jerry Serwer MD, University of Michigan David Slotwiner MD, Weill Cornell Medical College Nick Gawrit MBA, heartbase Chris Melo MS, Philips Healthcare Moderator: Paul Dow, MS, American College of Cardiology Description Understand activity of the Cardiology domain. Overview of available profile including clinical workflow and content profiles. Inside IHE: Patient Care Device (PCD) Domain Overview Profiles 2017 Profile Updates Get Involved & Resources Presenters Monroe Pattillo, Practical Health Interoperability, LLC Inside IHE:IT Infrastructure (ITI) Domain Overview & Profiles How to Participate & Development Cycle Connectathon High Level Overview Presenters Daniel Berezeanu, Ready Computing Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology Domain & Committee Overview Profiles and Technical Framework Connectathon & How to Participate Presenters Mark Pepelea, Ph.D., Philips Healthcare Description Become familiar with the structure of the committee in IHE-RO, with the purpose of IHE-RO and with the profile currently being developed. Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) mRFD Profile (Mobile Retrieve Form for Data Capture) ADX Profile (Aggregate Data Exchange) FP (Family Planning) BFDR-E & VRDR Profiles Moderator Derek Ritz, ecGroup Presenters John Stamm, Epic James Kariuki, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Bob Jolliffe, University of Osl Lauren Lemieux, American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists Lori Fourquet, E-HealthSign, LLC Alaina Elliott, National Center for Health Statistics Description IHE QRPH will present the following profiles: mRFD (Mobile Retrieve Form for Data Capture) ADX (Aggregate Data Exchange) FP2 (Family Planning version 2) BFDR-E (Birth and Fetal Death Reporting Enhanced) VRDR (Vital Records Death Reporting) Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Domain Overview & Existing Profiles New Profiles More New Profiles How to Participate Presenters Laura Heermann Langford Amit Popat Moderator Jeremiah Myers, HIMSS Description History of the PCC Domain Vision, Mission and Strategic Goals of PCC and relevance in IHE and Health IT Accomplishments over the most recent cycle Identify opportunity for your organization to participate and engage in PCC Inside IHE: Pharmacy Please see in the upper left navigation menu to view the most recent Pharmacy Domain update. Other Webinars IHE USA Webinars Visit the to see additional webinar offering on topic such a the IHE North American (NA) Connectathon and HIMSS Interoperability Showcase. IHE 2017 Eye Care Connectathon More New Profiles IHE Discusses Standards with Surescripts IHE Discusses Standards with Surescripts IHE Radiology Profiles IDEP Profile Preview EBIW Profile 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site 2018 Webinars Inside IHE Webinar Series 2018 Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leader of IHE standard development activity to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholder and prepare developer and implementers to leverage IHE solution to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Information and registration for upcoming webinars and recording of past presentation are provided below. Links to previous year webinars are provided in the menu at left. Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) Intro, Mission and Scope New Lab Trial Implementation Profiles New Anatomic Pathology Trial Implementation Profiles Current Projects and How to Get Involved Presenters Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC Raj C. Dash, MD, Director, Laboratory Informatics Strategy, Medical Director, Laboratory Information Systems, Professor, Department of Pathology, Duke University Health System Inside IHE: Radiology Intro and EBIW Profile WIA Profile WIA Integration with XDS-I or MHD XDS-I Updates and How to Get Involved Moderator Mike Bohl, COO, Radiology Group Presenters Mike Bohl, COO, Radiology Group Kevin ODonnell, MASc, DICOM Standards Committee; QIBA Steering Committee; IHE Board; Senior Manager, Canon Medical Research USA Kinson Ho, MMath, IHE Radiology Technical Committee Co-Chair, Solution Architect, Change Healthcare Description Encounter-based Imaging Workflow (EBIW) address medical imaging performed outside the context of an ordered procedure. The profile integrates the device to capture appropriate context (patient, encounter, procedure), populate relevant indexing fields, link to related data, and ensure the image are accessible and well-knit into the medical record. Web-based Image Access (WIA) [formerly known a MHD-I]: defines a query/retrieve mechanism for imaging study using lightweight RESTful API. The mechanism is agnostic to the image sharing infrastructure. It can be used in the existing DICOM infrastructure a well a XDS/XDS-I document sharing infrastructure (when grouping with MHD or XDS-I). Import and Display of External Priors (IDEP): upon receiving a scheduled order message, automatically locates, accesses, import and view prior from outside institution for direct comparison to a local current study. Specifically this profile discovers both imaging study and associated reports. XDS-I.b Update: review several significant update recently completed for XDS-I.b. Inside IHE: Eye Care Intro and Domain Overview Unified Eye Care Workflow Unified Eye Care Workflow Technical Details GEE (General Eye Exam), Other Profiles and How to Participate Presenters Abdiel Marin, CEO, EyeMD EMR Healthcare Systems, Inc. Peter Scherer, Principal at PS IT International Description Unified Eyecare Workflow GEE General Eye Exam Inside IHE: Patient Care Device (PCD) Intro and Domain Overview PCD Profiles Updates and Resources Presenters Rob Wilder, Sr. Product Manager, Spok Description PIV, DEC, ACM, MEMLS, MEMDMC, IDCO, RDQ, WCM, NIST Tools Inside IHE: Cardiology Intro and Domain Overview IHE Japan Projects and Connectathon Profile Updates Next Steps for Domain Moderator Paul Dow, MSHI, American College of Cardiology Presenters Jerry Serwer MD, University of Michigan David Slotwiner MD, Weill Cornell Medical College Nick Gawrit, heartbase Rebecca Baker, American College of Cardiology Shinichi Nakano, Canon Medical Takeshi Oozeki, Canon Medical Charles Thomas, University of Washington Description This presentation will highlight the Cardiac Procedure Note (CPN) profile and the CPN Companion Guide developed to communicate the benefit of interoperability between Cardiac Catheterization Labs, Electrophysiology Labs, and other care teams. Extensions to CPN profile for additional structural heart procedure type will also be discussed. Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Vision, Mission and Goals PCC Profiles How to Get Involved Presenter Amit Popat, Epic, Planning Committee Co-Chair, IHE PCC Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology Domain and Committee Overview RO Profiles How to Participate Presenters Mark Pepelea, Ph.D., Philips Healthcare Description Current and recent work Inside IHE: IT Infrastructure (ITI) ITI Overview and Updates MHD Profile mXDE Profile Document Sharing Overview ITI Asynchronous AS4 Option Presenters Daniel A Berezeanu, Professional Engineer, Ready Computing John Moehrke, Co-Chair ITI Planning, Light Professional IT Services LLC Charles Parisot GE Healthcare, IHE ITI Technical Committee Member, IHE Intl Board Member Description Domain Overview & Profiles Summary Mobile access to Health Documents (MHD) Mobile Cross-Enterprise Document Data Element Extraction (mXDE) Document Sharing Overview New Asynchronous AS4 Web Services Option for XCA, XCPD, XDR and XCDR Profiles: To support scaling of document sharing between community to a large number of gateways, Asynchronous Web Services Exchange is critical to realize a more efficient handling of latency and scale. Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) SDC Profile ADX-HIV Content Schema BFDR-E and VRDR Profile Updates Presenters Alex Goal, Senior Analyst, Cancer Care Ontario Derek Ritz, ecGroup Lori Reed Fourquet, Consultant, e-HealthSign, LLC Alaina Elliott, IT Specialist, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NCHS Description Structured Data Capture (SDC) ADX-HIV content schema Birth and Fetal Death Reporting Enhanced (BFDR-E) Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR) Inside IHE: Pharmacy Please seeto view the most recent Pharmacy Domain update. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site 2019 Webinars Inside IHE Webinar Series 2019 Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leader of IHE standard development activity to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholder and prepare developer and implementers to leverage IHE solution to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Recordings of past presentation are provided below. Inside IHE: IT Infrastructure (ITI) Presenters Gregorio Canal Luke Duncan Joe Lamy Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) Presenters Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC and Association of Public Health Laboratories Raj C. Cash, MD, Duke Topics Overview of the Technical Framework and profile covered Current work is the Specimen Event Tracking (SET) Main focus is a new profile for digital pathology image acquisition (and a white paper to lay out the landscape) Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Presenter Michael Clifton, Epic Topics Review of Assessment Curation and Data Collection (ACDC) Advancing the interoperability of assessment Review of CDA Document Summary Sections (CDA-DSS) Update to include discrete care team entry template for CDA Review of Dynamic Care Team Management Inside IHE: Patient Care Device (PCD) Presenter Rob Wilder, Spok Inside IHE: Pharmacy Presenters Esther Peelen Michael Tan, Nictiz Topics Review of Mobile Medication Administration (MMA) Review of Uniform Barcode Processing (UBP) Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Videos Presenters Laura Bright Andrea Fourquet Alaina Gregory Lori Fourquet Jenny Thompson Derek Ritz Topics Overview of IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Review of Prescription Repository Query (PRQ) Review of Vital Records: Birth and Fetal Death Reporting Enhanced Profile and Vital Records Death Reporting (BFDR/VRDR FHIR) Review of Computable Care Guidelines (CCG) Inside IHE: Radiology Presenters Chris Roth, MD Kevin ODonnell Jonathan Whitby Kinson Ho Description Review of Encounter Based Imaging Workflow (EBIW) Review of Import and Display of External Priors (IDEP) Review of Clinical Decision Support Order Appropriateness Tracking (CDS-OAT) Review of Significant Change Proposal (CP) Updates Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology Presenter Mark Pepelea, Philips Topics Review of Basic Radiation Therapy Objects (BRTO) Review of Advanced RT object Review of Quality Assurance with Plan Veto (QAPV) Review of Multi-modality image registration (MMRO) Review of Treatment Delivery Record Content (TDRC) Review of Treatment Delivery Workflow (TDW) 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Resources IHE ha created a set of information resource and tool for vendor and user of healthcare information system to help them integrate system and share information more effectively. Understand the standards-based integration capability defined in the IHE Technical Frameworks, in plain language. Learn how to use IHE to improve the way system are selected, specified, purchased and deployed. See project that have made use of IHE to integrate system within a healthcare institution. See detailed reference document that guide system developer and integrator in implementing standards. View and submit comment on Technical Framework documents. View educational webinars to help your organization develop and implement HIT systems. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Case Studies IHE case study describe project that use IHE profile to improve system interoperability and information access for patient and provider within and across care sites. They highlight the advantage of using IHE to improve: Operational efficiency in implementing and upgrading system Productivity and workflow efficiency Communication among care provider and patient and access to vital medical information Patient safety and quality of care The organizations, program and care site listed below have progressed toward these goal by leveraging IHE profiles. Click the link to read their stories. Submit a Case Study If your organization ha made use of IHE profile to integrate system and improve access to information for provider and patients, we invite you to share you story with IHE and the broader healthcare community. or contact secretary@ihe.net for further information. Case Study Archive 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IHE Technical Framework Documents for Public Comment The are a resource for users, developer and implementers of healthcare imaging and information systems. They define specific implementation of established standard to achieve effective system integration, facilitate appropriate sharing of medical information and support optimal patient care. Technical Framework document are maintained regularly by the IHE Technical Committees through the identification and correction of errata. Technical Framework document that are currently in their designated public review phase are linked below. Comments are invited on all published Technical Framework document on an ongoing basis. All comment should be submitted using the link provided below. Technical Framework Templates and General Introduction Public Comments IHE Templates for Public Comment None currently IHE General Introduction and Shared Appendices for Public Comment None currently Cardiology Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently Dental Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently Devices Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment The IHE Devices Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from April 11 through May 11, 2024: Published 2024-04-11 Comments on this document should be submitted by May 11, 2024. Submit your comment via traditional method or by creating a White Papers for Public Comment None currently Endoscopy Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently Eye Care Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently IT Infrastructure Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment Please see . White Papers/Handbooks for Public Comment None currently Although the following white paper ha completed it public comment period and ha been published , the IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Committee is continuing to accept comment for future development purposes. Published 2020-05-29 Comments are being accepted on an ongoing basis. Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently Patient Care Coordination Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from April 10 through May 10, 2024: Published 2024-04-10 Comments on this document should be submitted by May 10, 2024. The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from March 8 through April 7, 2024: Published 2024-03-08 Comments on this document should be submitted by April 7, 2024. Submit your comment via traditional method or create a issue. The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from January 12 through March 14, 2021: Published 2021-01-12 Published 2021-01-12 Comments on these document should be submitted by March 14, 2021. The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from August 26 through September 25, 2020: Published 2020-08-26 Comments on this document should be submitted by September 25, 2020. White Papers for Public Comment None currently Pharmacy Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently Quality, Research and Public Health Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment None currently White Papers for Public Comment None currently Radiation Oncology Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment The IHE Radiation Oncology Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from November 10 through December 11, 2023: Published 2023-11-10 Published 2023-11-10 Published 2023-11-10 Comments on these document should be submitted by December 11, 2023. White Papers for Public Comment None currently Radiology Public Comments Supplements for Public Comment The IHE Radiology Technical Committee ha published the following supplement for public comment in the period from March 8 through April 7, 2024: Published 2024-03-08 Comments on these document should be submitted by April 7, 2024. White Papers for Public Comment None currently 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Profiles Healthcare professional seeking to acquire or upgrade system need a convenient, reliable way of specifying a level of compliance to standard sufficient to achieve truly efficient interoperability. The purpose of the IHE initiative is to meet that need. IHE Profiles provide a common language for purchaser and vendor to discus the integration need of healthcare site and the integration capability of healthcare IT products. They offer developer a clear implementation path for communication standard supported by industry partner and carefully documented, reviewed and tested. They give purchaser a tool that reduces the complexity, cost and anxiety of implementing interoperable systems. Profiles and Standards IHE Profiles organize and leverage the integration capability that can be achieved by coordinated implementation of communication standards, such a DICOM, HL7 W3C and security standards. They provide precise definition of how standard can be implemented to meet specific clinical needs. IHE Domains and Annual Work Cycles IHE is organized across a growing number of clinical and operational domains. Each domain produce it own set of Technical Framework documents, in close coordination with other IHE domains. Committees in each domain review and republish these document annually, often expanding with supplement that define new profiles. Initially, each profile is published for public comment. After the comment received are addressed, the revised profile is republished for trial implementation; that is, for use in the IHE implementation testing process. If criterion for successful testing are achieved, the profile is published a final text and incorporated into the domain Technical Framework. The link below lead to brief description of IHE profile that have been published. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Technical Frameworks The IHE Technical Frameworks, available for download below, are a resource for users, developer and implementers of healthcare imaging and information systems. They define specific implementation of established standard to achieve effective system integration, facilitate appropriate sharing of medical information and support optimal patient care. Technical Framework document are maintained regularly by the IHE Technical Committees through the identification and correction of errata. Review and Submit Comments IHE invite implementers and other interested party to review and provide input on IHE Technical Framework documents: Public Comment Phase: Each Technical Framework or White Paper undergoes a period of public comment. Documents currently released for public comment are available . Ongoing Comments: IHE also welcome correction or suggestion for improvement to our Technical Framework documents. To submit your feedback on a domain published documents, follow the following links: Anatomic Pathology (see Pathology and Laboratory Medicine) Laboratory (see Pathology and Laboratory Medicine) Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals Beginning with the 2015 publication cycle, a new (pilot) process for communicating Final Text (approved) Change Proposals ha been established. It is important to note that a soon a a Change Proposal becomes Final Text, it carry the same weight a published Technical Frameworks and Trial Implementation Supplements (i.e., it is testable at a Connectathon from the time it is approved for Final Text, even if it will not be integrated into the applicable Technical Framework document until several month later). For domain that are piloting this new process, a link will be available in their section below to a repository of Final Text CPs and an index spreadsheet. Call for Profile Proposals The first step in getting a new profile developed is the submission of a Brief Profile Proposal. Consult with a specific domain Planning Committee for the schedule for submitting these proposal for the next development cycle. IHE Technical Frameworks General Introduction and Shared Appendices New: The IHE Technical Frameworks General Introduction and Shared Appendices are now published a HTML. The IHE Technical Frameworks General Introduction and Shared Appendices are shared by all of the IHE domain technical frameworks. Each technical framework volume contains link to this information where applicable. It is posted here for ease of reference. Note: IHE Glossary term are maintained via the . (SKMT). The embedded document contains all term a of the publication date of the document. Always refer to the SKMT for the most current list of IHE Glossary terms. See the for further information. Comments from author and other interested party on the IHE General Introduction document are invited on an ongoing basis. Anatomic Pathology Technical Framework As of January 4, 2016 the Anatomic Pathology and Laboratory domain merged forming the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) domain. Going forward, please reference the domain section for Technical Framework development work. The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework volume and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_PAT_TF_Vol1 IHE_PAT_Suppl_APSR Those link always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_PAT_TF_Rev2.0_Vol1_FT_2010-07-23 IHE_PAT_Suppl_APSR_Rev1.1_TI_2011-03-31 Cardiology Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Current Technical Framework Revision 5.0 August 29, 2013 Copyright 2013: IHE International, Inc. Final Text Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Cardiology Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the IHE Cardiology Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Published 2011-07-01 Revised 2018-08-17 Revised 2018-08-17 Revised 2018-08-17 Revised 2016-07-25 (XML) Published 2016-07-25 Revised 2013-08-29 Revised 2013-08-29 Published 2014-04-30 (XML) Revised 2013-08-29 Published 2013-05-21 Published 2014-07-18 (XML) (PDF) Published 2015-07-14 Published 2015-07-15 Revised 2013-08-29 Revised 2013-08-29 Cardiology White Papers Published 2011-08-05 Published 2007-06-08 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_CARD_TF_Vol1 IHE_CARD_Suppl_BIR Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_CARD_TF_Rev4.0_Vol1_FT_2011-08-05 IHE_CARD_Suppl_BIR_Rev1.2_TI_2012-07-25 Dental Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Current Technical Framework To be developed. Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Dental Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the forthcoming IHE Dental Technical Framework. This trial implementation profile is eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Published 2013-09-06 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework volume and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_DENT_Suppl_SEDI Those link always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_DENT_Suppl_SEDI_Rev1.2_TI_2013-09-06 Devices Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Current Technical Framework Revision 9.0 December 12, 2019 Copyright 2019: IHE International, Inc. These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Alert Communication Management (ACM) Device Enterprise Communication (DEC) Implantable Device Cardiac Observation (IDCO) Infusion Pump Event Communication (IPEC) Point-of-Care Infusion Verification (PIV) Rosetta Terminology Mapping (RTM) Brief description of these profile are . Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Devices (DEV) Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the Devices Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile will be eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Infusion Pump Event Communication (IPEC) Incorporated into the Technical Framework Volumes a of Rev. 9.0 Revised 2023-04-07 Revised 2023-04-07 Published 2020-04-13 Published 2018-12-07 Published 2012-08-16 Published 2012-08-16 Revised 2023-12-08 (unoptimized rendering) (for current release) Published 2007-07-29 (Reissued for NA2012 on 2011-11-11) Revised 2018-01-08 Devices White Papers The IHE Devices Technical Committee ha published the following white papers. These white paper facilitate the use of existing IHE Devices profile and/or scope the need for future profiles. Published 2017-06-16 Published 2015-10-14 Published 2009-09-01 Published 2011-05-27 Published 2015-10-14 Published 2018-10-23 Published 2019-11-01 Published 2019-11-01 Devices User Handbook The IHE Devices Technical Committee ha published the following User Handbook. (aka PCD Cookbook) Published 2018-04-12 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_PCD_TF_Vol1 IHE_PCD_Suppl_POI Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_PCD_TF_Rev2.0_Vol1_FT_2012-08-16 IHE_PCD_Suppl_POI_Rev1.1_TI_2012-08-16 Endoscopy Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Current Technical Framework Not yet developed. Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Endoscopy Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the forthcoming IHE Endoscopy Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Published 2018-11-28 Published 2018-11-28 Published 2018-11-28 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework volume and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_ENDO_TF_Vol1 IHE_ENDO_Suppl_ABC Those link always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_ENDO_TF_Rev11.0_Vol1_FT_2012-07-24 IHE_ENDO_Suppl_ABC_Rev1.2_TI_2012-07-24 Eye Care Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals In addition to the Technical Framework Volumes and Trial Implementation Supplements listed below, implementers should also review Final Text CPs in preparation for IHE Connectathons. A summary spreadsheet of Eye Cares Final Text Change Proposals with link to the applicable CPs is located . Current Technical Framework Revision 4.0 June 14, 2016 Copyright 2016: IHE International, Inc. Final Text These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Eye Care Workflow (EYECARE) Retired 2016-06-14 Charge Posting (CHG) Eye Care Evidence Documents (ECED) Eye Care Displayable Report (ECDR) Unified Eye Care Workflow (U-EYECARE) Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Eye Care Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the IHE Eye Care Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Eye Care Connectathons. Basic Eye Care Workflow (B-EYECARE) Retired 2016-06-14 Revised 2016-12-29 Core Eye Care Workflow (C-EYECARE) Retired 2016-06-14 Published 2010-05-03 Published 2017-09-15 Published 2019-05-30 Revised 2016-06-29 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_EyeCare_TF_Vol1 IHE_EyeCare_Suppl_GEE Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_EyeCare_TF_Rev3.7_Vol1_FT_2012-08-31 IHE_EyeCare_Suppl_GEE_Rev1.1_TI_2012-06-29 IT Infrastructure Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals IMPORTANT NOTE: In addition to the Technical Framework Volumes and Trial Implementation Supplements listed below, implementers should also review Final Text Change Proposals (CPs) in preparation for IHE Connectathons. An index of approved CPs is found Current Technical Framework Revision 20.0 August 4, 2023 Copyright 2023: IHE International, Inc. Final Text New: The IT Infrastructure Technical Committee ha converted the complete ITI Technical Framework to HTML. It is available . Document Sharing Metadata and Content Profiles These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Audit Trail and Node Authentication (ATNA) Basic Patient Privacy Consents (BPPC) Consistent Time (CT) Cross-Community Access (XCA) Cross-Community Patient Discovery (XCPD) Cross-Enterprise Document Media Interchange (XDM) Cross-Enterprise Document Reliable Interchange (XDR) Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing (XDS.b) Cross-Enterprise Document Workflow (XDW) Cross-Enterprise Sharing of Scanned Documents (XDS-SD) Document Metadata Subscription (DSUB) Cross-Enterprise User Assertion (XUA) Document Digital Signature (DSG) Enterprise User Authentication (EUA) Multi-Patient Queries (MPQ) Patient Administration Management (PAM) Patient Demographic Query HL7 V3 (PDQ V3) Patient Demographics Query (PDQ) Patient Identifier Cross-Referencing (PIX) Patient Identifier Cross-Reference HL7 V3 (PIX V3) Patient Synchronized Applications (PSA) Personnel White Pages (PWP) Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) Retrieve Information for Display (RID) Sharing Value Sets (SVS) XAD-PID Change Management (XPID) Brief description of these profile are . Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the IT Infrastructure Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2021-07-02 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2024-02-16 Revised 2016-09-09 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2019-07-12 Revised 2023-05-04 Revised 2015-08-31 Revised 2019-07-12 Published 2024-02-29 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2020-08-28 Revised 2022-06-17 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2019-12-05 Revised 2022-08-12 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2023-11-17 Notification of Document Availability (NAV) Deprecated 2013-09-27 Revised 2024-02-23 Revised 2024-02-23 Revised 2022-08-09 Revised 2015-08-31 Revised 2024-02-23 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2021-07-02 Revised 2022-10-24 Published 2023-11-17 Revised 2023-08-04 Published 2019-08-15 Revised 2023-08-04 IT Infrastructure User Handbooks User handbook provide advice, example and consideration for the use of IHE ITI profiles. Revised 2008-11-10 Revised 2014-06-06 Revised 2014-06-06 Published 2022-03-01 Revised 2008-12-02 IT Infrastructure White Papers The IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Committee ha published the following white papers. These white paper facilitate the use of existing IHE ITI profile or scope the need for future profiles. Published 2009-09-28 Published 2016-12-02 Published 2009-09-28 Published 2023-05-04 Revised 2021-03-19 Published 2015-09-18 Published 2021-11-08 Published 2020-05-29 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_ITI_TF_Vol1 IHE_ITI_Suppl_XDW Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_ITI_TF_Rev9.0_Vol1_FT_2012-08-31 IHE_ITI_Suppl_XDW_Rev1.2_TI_2012-08-31 Laboratory Technical Framework As of January 4, 2016 the Anatomic Pathology and Laboratory domain merged forming the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) domain. Going forward, please reference the domain section for Technical Framework development work. The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_LAB_TF_Vol1 IHE_LAB_Suppl_GIR Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_LAB_TF_Rev4.0_Vol1_FT_2012-10-02 IHE_LAB_Suppl_GIR_Rev1.1_TI_2012-10-02 Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at Current Technical Framework Revision 11.0 April 8, 2024 Copyright 2024: IHE International, Inc. Final Text Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes: These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: (For all profiles, actor and supported transaction are found in Volume 1; segment definition common to all are in Volume 2x) Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW) see Volume 2b Laboratory Testing Workflow (LTW) see Volume 2a Laboratory Device Automation (LDA) see Volume 2a Laboratory Point Of Care Testing (LPOCT) see Volume 2c Laboratory Code Set Distribution (LCSD) see Volume 2c Laboratory Specimen Barcode Labeling (LBL) see Volume 2c Sharing Laboratory Reports (XD-LAB) see Volume 3 Brief description of these profile are . Supplements for Trial Implementation Revised 2010-07-23 Revised 2018-09-28 Revised 2024-04-08 Published 2010-10-15 Revised 2013-11-08 Revised 2024-04-08 Published 2021-11-23 Published 2021-11-23 Revised 2019-10-22 Pathology and Laboratory Medicine White Papers The IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Technical Committee ha published the following white papers. These white paper facilitate the use of existing IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine profile and/or scope the need for future profiles. Published 2022-11-18 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_PaLM_TF_Vol1 IHE_PaLM_Suppl_LAW Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_PaLM_TF_Rev4.0_Vol1_FT_2012-10-02 IHE_PaLM_Suppl_LAW_Rev1.1_TI_2012-10-02 Patient Care Coordination Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted Current Technical Framework Revision 11.0 November 11, 2016 Copyright 2016: IHE International, Inc. These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Cross Enterprise Sharing of Medical Summaries Integration Profile (XDS-MS), including Medical Summary Document Content (MS) specification Emergency Department Referral (EDR) Exchange of Personal Health Record Content (XPHR Immunization Content (IC) incorporated into the TF 2013-10-04 Brief description of these profile are . Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the PCC Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Revised 2021-04-14 Revised 2011-09-09 Antepartum Education (APE) Antepartum Laboratory (APL) Antepartum History and Physical (APHP) Antepartum Summary (APS) Revised 2020-03-24 Published 2018-11-02 Published 2008-08-26 Revised 2022-03-16 Published 2019-09-27 Published 2020-08-26 Clinical Mapping (CMAP) Deprecated Revised 2013-10-04 Published 2016-09-09 Revised 2013-10-04 Revised 2014-11-04 Revised 2019-09-27 Published 2017-09-08 Note: An updated revision (2.0) ha been published for public comment a of 2019-12-31 Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Workflow Definition (EHDI-WD) This supplement ha been relocated to the QRPH domain section Revised 2016-11-11 Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN) ED Physician Note (EDPN) Nursing Note (NN) Triage Note (TN) EMS Transfer of Care (ETC) Deprecated Revised 2013-11-08 Published 2015-08-05 Published 2023-10-09 (includes the following profiles) Revised 2013-10-04 Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP) Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS) Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS) Published 2018-11-02 Revised 2011-09-09 Published 2018-09-13 Note: An updated revision (2.0) ha been published for public comment a of 2021-01-12 Published 2013-10-04 Revised 2013-10-04 Published 2010-08-30 Published 2017-09-08 Revised 2011-09-09 Revised 2016-11-11 Revised on 2022-02-08 Revised 2016-11-11 Revised 2014-11-04 Published 2015-08-05 Revised 2009-08-10 Revised 2013-10-04 Published 2017-09-08 Note: An updated revision (2.0) ha been published for public comment a of 2021-01-12 Transport Record Summary Profiles (includes the following profiles) Deprecated Emergency Department Transport Summary (ETS) Interfacility Transport Summary (ITS) Patient Care Coordination Implementation Guides Patient Care Coordination White Papers Published 2014-10-24 (from the Public Health Data Standards Consortium) Published 2007-10-11 Published 2017-09-27 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_PCC_TF_Vol1 IHE_PCC_Suppl_RCK Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_PCC_TF_Rev8.0_Vol1_FT_2012-08-31 IHE_PCC_Suppl_RCK_Rev1.1_TI_2012-08-16 Pharmacy Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Current Technical Framework To Be Developed Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Pharmacy Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the forthcoming Pharmacy Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile will be available for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Revised 2014-09-29 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2013-10-11 Published 2017-12-04 Published 2017-12-04 Pharmacy White Papers The IHE Pharmacy Technical Committee ha published the following white papers. Published 2020-03-11 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_Pharmacy_Suppl_HMW Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_Pharmacy_Suppl_HMW_Rev1.3_TI_2012-09-27 Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Current Technical Framework Revision 2.0 July 5, 2019 Copyright 2019: IHE International, Inc. Final Text These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Clinical Research Document (CRD) (added in Rev 1.0) Drug Safety Content (DSC) (added in Rev 1.0) Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI) (added in Rev. 2.0) Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the Trial Implementation QRPH Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile may be available for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Revised 2019-03-19 Published 2019-03-19 Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDR) Deprecated 2014-09-05 (replaced with BFDR-E) Revised 2021-12-29 Published 2021-10-26 Published 2021-10-26 Revised 2018-09-07 Revised 2018-09-07 Early Hearing Care Plan (EHCP) Deprecated 2014-06-06 (Refer to the HPoC content specification in the ) Revised 2016-08-10 Revised 2019-08-30 Revised 2016-09-09 Revised 2021-12-29 Revised 2022-03-16 Revised 2021-10-26 Revised 2019-08-30 Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI) Incorporated into the TF a of Rev. 2.0 Revised 2011-09-02 Published 2019-09-11 Revised 2016-08-10 Revised 2021-10-01 Redaction Services (RSP) Deprecated 2018-01-31 Research Matching (RM) Deprecated 2018-01-31 Revised 2018-09-07 Revised 2021-05-14 Revised 2021-02-24 Quality, Research and Public Health White Papers The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Committee ha published the following white papers: Published 2018-02-06 Published 2021-10-01 Published 2021-12-29 Published 2010-06-04 Published 2009-09-01 Published 2017-02-23 Published 2021-06-29 Published 2008-06-10 Published 2016-11-09 The Quality, Research and Public Health Domain endorses the white paper developed by the Public Health Data Standards Consortium. The white paper provides two detailed example of public health program (immunization and cancer registries). It also identifies other program for the development of technical specification for interoperable system in the future that manage public health, research, and quality. The white paper serf a a framing document for planning public health activity in IHE. We invite public health professional to join our collaborative effort at IHE between the public health and HIT vendor community to guide the development of the IHE Integration Profiles for interoperability among and between Electronic Health Record and Public Health Systems. These profile will facilitate the necessary linkages, standardization and integration of health data between clinical care and public health to create robust overarching health information exchanges. 2006-2007 Supplement for Public Comment The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Committee ha published the initial profile below for public comment: The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework Volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_QRPH_Suppl_CRD Those link will always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_QRPH_Suppl_CRD_Rev3.1_TI_2012-09-24 Radiation Oncology Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at Current Technical Framework Revision 2.0 April 7, 2020 Copyright 2020: ASTRO, AAPM, RSNA, HIMSS, IHE International, Inc. Final Text Version These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Basic Radiation Therapy Objects Integration Profile II (BRTO-II) Added 2020-04-07 Rev. 2.0 Multimodality Image Registration for Radiation Oncology-III (MMRO-III) Added 2020-04-07 Rev. 2.0 Treatment Planning Plan Content (TPPC) Added 2020-04-07 Rev. 2.0 Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Radiation Oncology Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the Radiation Oncology Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile may be eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Published 2022-04-13 Published 2022-12-19 Published 2023-11-03 Published 2016-11-16 Published 2019-07-01 Published 2021-02-05 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework volume and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_RO_TF_Vol1 IHE_RO_Suppl_TDPC Those link always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_RO_TF_Rev1.8_Vol1_FT_2014-06-26 IHE_RO_Suppl_TDPC_Rev1.1_TI_2016-11-16 Radiology Technical Framework Comments and implementer feedback on all document can be submitted at . Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals In addition to the Technical Framework Volumes and Trial Implementation Supplements listed below, implementers should also review Final Text CPs.An index spreadsheet providing the location (Rad Process tab) and the status (CPs tab) of Radiologys Change Proposals (including Final Text) is located . Current Technical Framework Revision 21.0 June 15, 2023 Copyright 2023: IHE International, Inc. Final Text Version These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles: Radiology Scheduled Workflow (SWF) Patient Information Reconciliation (PIR) Consistent Presentation of Images (CPI) Presentation of Grouped Procedures (PGP) Access to Radiology Information (ARI) Key Image Note (KIN) Simple Image and Numeric Report (SINR) Charge Posting (CHG) Post-processing Workflow (PWF) Reporting Workflow (RWF) Evidence Documents (ED) Portable Data for Imaging (PDI) Nuclear Medicine Image Cross-enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging (XDS-I) Deprecated 2012-07-24 and replaced with XDS-I.b Mammography Image Import Reconciliation Workflow (IRWF) Teaching File and Clinical Trial Export (TCE) Radiation Exposure Monitoring (REM) Added 2012-07-24 Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging (XDS-I.b) Added 2012-07-24 Cross-Community Access for Imaging (XCA-I) Added 2013-09-16 Imaging Object Change Management (IOCM) Added 2014-07-30 Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT) Added 2016-09-09 Rev. 15.0 Scheduled Workflow.b (SWF.b) Added 2020-09-18 Rev. 19.0 Management of Radiology Report Templates (MRRT) Added 2022-03-10 Rev. 20.0 Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Nuclear Medicine (REM-NM) Added 2023-06-15 Rev. 21.0 Brief description of these profile are . Supplements for Trial Implementation The IHE Radiology Technical Committee invite organization to begin development work based on the following supplement to the Radiology Technical Framework. These trial implementation profile may be eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons. Revised 2022-07-06 Published 2020-08-06 Revised 2016-09-09 Published 2010-06-17 Revised 2019-04-25 Published 2021-04-30 Revised 2019-08-09 Published 2017-01-13 Revised 2015-04-21 Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT) Extension Incorporated into Rev. 19.0 of the Technical Framework Revised 2019-05-13 Published 2009-21-06 Published 2006-04-13 Revised 2019-08-09 Published 2019-05-30 Revised 2016-09-09 Published 2023-10-04 Published 2022-07-25 Revised 2016-09-09 Revised 2016-09-09 Published 2017-07-14 Management of Radiology Report Templates (MRRT) Incorporated into Rev. 20.0 of the Technical Framework Mobile Access to Health Documents for Imaging (MHD-I) Deprecated 2017-09-15 and replaced with WIA Published 2009-06-21 Revised 2023-06-15 Published 2007-05-17 Published 2012-06-15 Published 2023-08-22 Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Nuclear Medicine (REM-NM) Incorporated into Rev. 21.0 of the Technical Framework Published 2015-12-14 Revised 2019-08-09 Scheduled Workflow.b (SWF.b) Incorporated into Rev. 19.0 of the Technical Framework Revised 2023-06-15 Revised 2018-07-27 Revised 2023-06-15 Revised 2023-06-15 Radiology White Papers The IHE Radiology Technical Committee ha published the following white papers. Comments are invited and can be made at any time. Published 2021-10-12 Revised 2022-03-10 Published 2012-12-17 Published 2004-04-15 Published 2012-12-17 The archive page contains deprecated supplement and superseded version of the Technical Framework volumes, white paper and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains: Superseded version of trial implementation supplement Current published version of the Technical Framework volume and supplement Current document (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example: IHE_RAD_TF_Vol1 IHE_RAD_Suppl_BIR Those link always return the newest document and support linking to specific section (section linking detail ). File name on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific version of a document: IHE_RAD_TF_Rev11.0_Vol1_FT_2012-07-24 IHE_RAD_Suppl_BIR_Rev1.2_TI_2012-07-24 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Technical Framework Archives The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at. The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework supplement currently published for public comment are available at . Anatomic Pathology Archives Current Published IHE Anatomic Pathology Documents Technical Framework The Laboratory Technical Framework is now the PaLM Technical Framework (due to merger of the AP and LAB domains). Superseded IHE Anatomic Pathology Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Superseded Anatomic Pathology Technical Framework Supplements Published 2011-03-31 Published 2011-03-31 Cardiology Archives Current Published IHE Cardiology Documents Technical Framework Revision 5.0 (Published 2013-08-29) Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation Published 2011-07-11 Revised 2018-08-17 Revised 2018-08-17 Revised 2018-08-17 Revised 2016-07-25 Revised 2013-08-29 Revised 2013-08-29 Revised 2013-08-29 Published 2013-05-21 Published 2014-07-18 (XML) (PDF) Published 2015-07-14 Published 2015-07-15 Revised 2013-08-29 Revised 2013-08-29 Superseded IHE Cardiology Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 4.0 (Published 2011-08-05) Technical Framework Revision 3.0 (Published 2010-10-15) Superseded Cardiology Technical Framework Supplements Published 2017-08-04 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-06-29 Rev 1.2 Revised 2012-07-25 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-11 Rev. 47 Revised 2010-07-30 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-10-15 Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-07-30 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-08-05 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-10-15 Dental Archives Current Published IHE Dental Documents Technical Framework Not yet created Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation Revised 2013-09-06 Superseded IHE Dental Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Superseded Dental Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-08-05 Devices Archives Current Published IHE Devices Documents Technical Framework Revision 9.0 (Published 2019-12-12) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, IPEC, PIV, and RTM profiles) Supplements for Trial Implementation Rev. 1.4 Revised 2023-04-07 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2023-04-07 Rev. 1.1Published 2020-04-13 Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-12-07 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16 Rev. 1.2.0 Published 2023-12-08 Rev. 1.2 Published 2007-07-29 (Reissued for NA2012 on 2011-11-11) Rev. 1.3 Revised 2018-01-08 Superseded IHE Devices Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 8.0 (Published 2018-10-23) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revision 7.0 (Published 2017-11-09) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revision 6.0 (Published 2016-11-09) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revision 5.0 (Published 2015-10-14) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revision 4.0 (Published 2014-11-04) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revision 3.0 (Published 2013-10-11) (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revision 2.0 (Published 2012-08-16) (includes DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Technical Framework Revsion 1.0 (Published 2011-08-12) (includes DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Trial Implementation Technical Framework Revision 1.2 (Published 2010-09-30) (includes DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles) Trial Implementation Technical Framework Revision 1.1 (Published 2006-08-15) Superseded IHE Devices Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-07-01 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-08-16 Incorporated into TF Volumes 2013-10-11 Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-08-12 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-12-20 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2014-06-26 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2015-11-25 (Incorporated into Rev. 9.0 of TF Volumes) Rev. 1.1. Published 2014-11-04 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-14 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-11-09 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-11-04 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-14 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-11-09 Link to Previous Releases in GitHub Rev 1.1 Published 2011-07-01 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-08-16 Superseded IHE Devices User Handbooks Published 2011-08-12 Endoscopy Archives Current Published IHE Endoscopy Documents Technical Framework Not yet created Supplements for Trial Implementation Published 2018-11-28 Published 2018-11-28 Published 2018-11-28 Superseded IHE Endoscopy Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Superseded Endoscopy Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-12-14 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-12-14 Rev. 2.1 Published 2017-04-20 Eye Care Archives Current Published IHE Eye Care Documents Technical Framework Revision 4.0 (Published 2016-06-14) Supplements for Trial Implementation Revised 2016-12-29 Published 2010-05-03 Published 2017-09-15 Published 2019-05-30 Revised 2016-06-29 Superseded IHE Eye Care Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Rev. 3.7 (Published 2010-02-15) Superseded Eye Care Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 2.1 Revised 2014-10-03 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-07-14 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-06-29 Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-04-29 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-07-14 Published 2016-06-14 Retired Eye Care Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 2.1 Retired 2016-06-14 Rev. 1.1 Retired 2016-06-14 IT Infrastructure Archives Current Published IHE IT Infrastructure Documents Technical Framework Revision 20.0 (Published 2023-08-04) Published a HTML. (PDF version no longer available) : Profile definition, use-case analysis, actor definition, and use of transaction and content : Transaction definition and constraint : Document Sharing Metadata and Content Profiles : National Extensions Technical Framework Supplements for Trial Implementation Rev. 3.4 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2021-07-02 Revised 2020-08-28 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2023-08-04 Release 1.1.3 Revised 2024-02-16 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2019-07-12 Revised 2023-05-04 Revised 2015-08-31 Revised 2019-07-12 Release 1.0.0 Published 2024-02-29 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2020-08-28 Revised 2021-03-19 Release 4.2.1 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2019-12-05 Revised 2022-03-01 Release 1.3.0 Revised 2023-08-04 Release 2.3.1 Revised 2023-08-04 Release 2.2.0 Revised 2023-11-17 Release 3.0.0 Revised 2024-02-23 Release 3.0.4 Revised 2024-02-23 Revised 2015-08-31 Revised 2022-08-08 Release 1.1.0 Revised 2024-02-23 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2023-08-04 Revised 2021-07-02 Revised 2022-10-24 Release 1.1.0 Published 2023-11-17 Release 1.5.1 Revised 2023-08-04 Published 2019-08-15 Rev. 1.14 Revised 2023-08-04 Superseded IHE IT Infrastructure Documents Technical Framework Revision 19.0 (Published 2022-06-17) See the release info Technical Framework Revision 18.0 (Published 2021-07-30) See the release info . Technical Framework Revision 17.0 (Published 2020-07-20) Note: Last PDF published version Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64. Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications National Extensions Technical Framework Revision 16.0 (Published 2019-07-12) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64. Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications National Extensions Technical Framework Revision 15.0 (Published 2018-07-24) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64. Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications National Extensions Technical Framework Revision 15.0 (Published 2018-07-24) Volume 2x only: Technical Framework Revision 14.0 (Published 2017-07-21) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64. Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications National Extensions Technical Framework Revision 13.0 (Published 2016-09-09) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ : Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications : National Extensions The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 12.0 (Published 2015-09-18) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ : Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications : National Extensions Technical Framework Revision 11.0 (Published 2014-09-23) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ : Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications : National Extensions Technical Framework Revision 10.0 (Published 2013-09-27) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ ): Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications Technical Framework Revision 9.0 (Published 2012-08-31) Volume 2 Transactions: Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ ): Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications Technical Framework Revision 8.0 (Published 2011-08-19) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ Appendices A through W and Glossary Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications Technical Framework Revision 7.0 (Published 2010-08-10) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-50. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS Appendices A through W and Glossary Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications Technical Framework Revision 6.0 (Published 2009-08-10) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: ITI-I through ITI-28. These transaction are used in the following profile CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV ITI-29 through ITI-50. These transaction are used in the following profile PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS Appendices A through W and Glossary Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications Technical Framework Revision 5.0 (Published 2008-12-12) Technical Framework Revision 4.0 (Published 2007-08-22) Deprecated IT Infrastructure Technical Framework Supplements Deprecated 2013-09-27 Deprecated 2012-08-31 Superseded IT Infrastructure Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-07 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-08-05 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2019-08-15 Rev. 3.2 Revised 2020-08-26 Rev, 3.3 Revised 2021-07-02 Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-08-05 Rev. 1.2 Published 2018-07-24 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2019-07-12 Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-06-02 Rev. 1.2 Published 2017-07-21 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06 Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-08-20 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2019-07-12 Link to Version History table Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-20 Rev. 1.2 Published 2014-10-13 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-03-31 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2021-08-06 Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-08-19 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2013-10-25 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev 2.4 Revised 2012-08-31 Incorporated in TF Volumes Rev. 11 Rev. 2.5 Revised 2014-10-13 Rev. 2.6 Revised 2014-10-20 (bookmark anomaly fixed, no content changes) Rev. 2.7 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 2.8 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 2.9 Revised 2018-07-24 Rev. 2.10 Revised 2021-07-02 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2012-08-31 Rev. 2.3 Revised 2013-09-20 Rev. 2.4 Revised 2014-10-13 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-03-31 Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-08-20 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2013-10-25 (incorporated into the TF Volumes Rev. 15 2018-07-24) Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-08-19 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2018-07-24 Published 2009-08-10 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-03-12 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2012-08-31 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2013-09-20 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2014-10-13 Rev. 2.3 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-08-05 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2019-07-12 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2022-07-22 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-08-31 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2013-09-20 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-10-13 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2018-07-24 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-20 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2019-07-12 Note: Last PDF published version Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-31 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2013-09-20 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-10-14 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-03-12 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2016-06-02 Rev. 2.3 Revised 2017-07-24 Rev. 2.4 Revised 2018-07-24 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2019-03-06 Rev. 3.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Note: Last PDF published version Link to Version History table Published 2020-05-29 Note: Last PDF published version Link to Version History table Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-07 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-08-05 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 2.3 Revised 2018-07-24 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-04 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2019-05-24 Rev. 3.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Rev. 3.3 Revised 2021-07-02 Note: Last PDF published version Link to Version History table Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-04 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2017-08-18 Note: Last PDF published version Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-04 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-12-05 Note: last PDF published version Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-08-19 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-25 Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 11 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-06-02 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Note: Last PDF published version Link to Version History table Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-07 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-06-02 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2018-07-24 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-12-05 Note: Last PDF published version Link to Version History table Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28 Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-12-05 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2020-12-11 Note: Last PDF published version Link to Version History table Link to Version History table Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-07-21 Rev. 1.2 Published 2018-07-24 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2020-08-28 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2021-07-02 Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-08-20 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2019-07-12 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2021-07-02 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2022-06-17 Note: Last PDF published version, Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-05-29 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2020-06-04 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2022-06-17 Note: Last PDF published version Rev 1.1 Published 2011-08-19 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-10-13 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-10-20 (bookmark anomaly fixed, no content changes) Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-08-05 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2017-07-21 (incorporated into the TF Volumes a of Rev. 17.0) Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-08-19 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-25 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2014-10-13 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-10-20 (bookmark anomaly fixed, no content changes) Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-08-31 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-08-05 Rev. 1.8 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.9 Revised 2017-07-21 Rev. 1.10 Revised 2018-07-24 Rev. 1.11 Revised 2019-07-12 Rev. 1.12 Revised 2021-07-02 Rev. 1.13 Revised 2022-06-17 Superseded IT Infrastructure White Papers Published 2009-09-28 Revised 2008-10-10 Published 2006-08-15 Published 2008-08-22 Rev. 2.0 Revised 2008-08-22 (as of 2022-03-19 published a HTML) Published 2008-08-22 Published 2008-10-10 Published 2011-03-04 Superseded User Handbooks Rev. 1.1 Revised 2008-08-18 (as of 2022-03-19 published a HTML) Change Proposals Incorporated in Final Text of IT Infrastructure Technical Frameworks The link below provide access to full documentation of Change Proposals incorporated into the text of the ITI-TF: Laboratory Archives Current Published IHE Laboratory Documents Technical Framework The Laboratory Technical Framework is now the PaLM Technical Framework (due to merger of the AP and LAB domains). Supplements for Trial Implementation Published 2010-10-15 Published 2013-11-08 Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW) This supplement ha been relocated to the PaLM domain section Superseded IHE Laboratory Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 6.0 (Published 2015-07-14) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: Technical Framework Revision 5.0 (Published 2013-11-08) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: Technical Framework Revision 4.0 (Published 2012-10-02) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes: Technical Framework Revision 3.0 (Published 2011-05-19) Volume 4 (LAB TF-4): LOINC Terminology Deprecated 2011-05-19 Technical Framework Revision 2.1 (Published 2008-08-08) Superseded IHE Laboratory Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.0 Published 2009-07-16 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-10-02 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-10-02 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-25 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-03-16 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-01-03 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-07-14 Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Archives Current Published IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Documents Technical Framework Revision 11.0 (Published 2024-04-08) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes: Supplements for Trial Implementation Published 2018-09-28 Revised 2024-04-08 Revised 2024-04-08 Published 2021-11-23 Published 2021-11-23 Published 2019-10-22 Superseded IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 10.0 (Published 2019-08-20) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes: Technical Framework Revision 9.0 (Published 2018-08-07) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes: Technical Framework Revision 8.0 (Published 2017-06-21) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes: Technical Framework Revision 7.0 (Published 2016-07-05) Volume 2: Transactions Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes: Superseded IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.2 Published 2020-08-14 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-03-16 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-02-24 Rev. 2.1 Published 2019-06-12 Patient Care Coordination Archives Current Published IHE Patient Care Coordination Documents Technical Framework Revision 11.0 (Published 2016-11-11) Rev. 11.1 Revised 2021-04-14 Technical Framework Supplements for Trial Implementation Rev. 1.2 Revised 2021-04-14 Revised 2011-09-09 Antepartum Education (APE) Antepartum Laboratory (APL) Antepartum History and Physical (APHP) Antepartum Summary (APS) Revised 2020-03-24 Published 2018-11-02 Published 2008-08-22 Revised 2022-03-16 Revised 2019-09-23 Published 2020-08-26 Clinical Mapping (CMAP) Deprecated Revised 2013-10-04 Published 2016-09-09 Revised 2013-10-04 Revised 2014-11-04 Revised 2019-09-23 Published 2017-09-08 Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Workflow Definition (EHDI-WD) Current published version is now available at the QRPH domain section (includes the following profiles) Revised 2016-11-11 Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN) ED Physician Note (EDPN) Nursing Note (NN) Triage Note (TN) Revised 2013-11-08 Published 2015-08-05 Immunization Content (IC) Incorporated into the TF 2013-10-04 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2023-10-09 (includes the following profiles) Revised 2013-10-04 Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP) Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS) Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS) Published 2018-11-02 Revised 2011-09-09 Published 2018-09-13 Published 2013-10-04 Revised 2013-10-04 Published 2010-08-30 Published 2017-09-08 Revised 2011-09-09 Revised 2016-11-11 Revised 2022-02-08 (RECON) Revised 2016-11-11 Revised 2014-11-04 Published 2015-08-05 Revised 2009-08-10 Revised 2013-10-04 Published 2017-09-08 Published 2011-09-09 Emergency Department Transport Summary (ETS) Interfacility Transport Summary (ITS) Superseded IHE Patient Care Coordination Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 11.0 (Published 2016-11-11) Technical Framework Revision 10.0 (Published 2014-11-04) Technical Framework Revision 9.0 (Published 2013-10-04) Technical Framework Revision 8.0 (Published 2012-08-31) Technical Framework Revision 7.0 (Published 2011-09-09) Technical Framework Revision 6.0 (Published 2010-08-30) Technical Framework Revision 5.0 (Published 2009-08-10) Superseded IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Framework Supplements Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-09-08 Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-08-30 Antepartum Education (APE) Antepartum Laboratory (APL) Antepartum History and Physical (APHP) Antepartum Summary (APS) Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-03-23 Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-09-09 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2011-09-02 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2012-08-31 Rev. 2.3 Revised 2013-10-04 Rev. 2.4 Revised 2014-12-03 Rev. 2.5 Revised 2016-11-11 Rev. 2.6 Revised 2020-06-17 Rev. 2.7 Revised 2021-02-26 Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-09-13 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-05 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-11-09 Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2018-09-13 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2011-09-09 Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN) ED Physician Note (EDPN) Nursing Note (NN) Triage Note (TN) Rev. 2.3 Revised 2013-10-04 Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN) ED Physician Note (EDPN) Nursing Note (NN) Triage Note (TN) Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-10-04 Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-08-30 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2011-09-09 (incorporated into the TF 2013-10-04) Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-06-17 (includes the following profiles) Rev. 1.1 Revised 2010-08-30 Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP) Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS) Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS) (includes the following profiles) Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-09-09 Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP) Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS) Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS) (includes the following profiles) Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-08-31 Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP) Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS) Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS) Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28 Rev. 1.1 Revised 2010-08-30 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2010-08-30 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2011-09-09 Rev. 1.1 Revised 2010-08-30 Rev. 2.0 Published 2008-08-22 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-09-08 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2020-07-17 Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-09-09 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2014-08-28 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2015-08-05 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-10-04 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16 Deprecated Patient Care Coordination Documents Deprecated Deprecated 2011-09-09 Pharmacy Archives Current Published IHE Pharmacy Documents Technical Framework Not yet created Supplements for Trial Implementation Revised 2014-09-29 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2013-10-11 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Published 2017-12-04 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Revised 2022-02-17 Published 2017-12-04 Superseded IHE Pharmacy Documents Superseded IHE Pharmacy Technical Framework Supplements Rev 1.1 Published 2010-12-30 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.8 Revised 2020-01-27 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27 Rev. 1. 3 Revised 2012-09-27 Rev 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-10-21 Rev. 1.8 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-10-23 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-10-21 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-29 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-23 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27 Rev 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-10-21 Rev. 1.8 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.9 Revised 2020-01-27 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27 Rev 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-10-21 Rev. 1.8 Revised 2017-10-11 Rev. 1.9 Revised 2020-01-27 Quality, Research and Public Health Archives Current Published IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Documents Technical Framework Revision 2.0 (Published 2019-07-05) Supplements for Trial Implementation Revised 2019-03-19 Published 2019-03-19 Revised 2018-09-07 Published 2021-10-26 Published 2021-10-26 Revised 2016-09-09 Revised 2018-09-07 Revised 2018-09-07 Revised 2012-09-24 Published 2011-09-02 Revised 2016-08-10 Revised 2019-08-30 Published 2016-09-09 Revised 2020-01-07 Revised 2022-03-16 Revised 2021-10-26 Revised 2019-08-30 Revised 2016-08-10 Revised 2011-09-02 Revised 2016-08-10 Revised 2021-10-01 Redaction Services (RSP) Deprecated 2018-01-31 Research Matching (RM) Deprecated 2018-01-31 Revised 2018-09-07 Revised 2021-05-14 Revised 2021-02-24 Superseded Quality, Research and Public Health Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 0.1 (Published 2011-09-02) Technical Framework Revision 1.0 (Published 2018-10-19) Superseded Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Framework Supplements (as of July 2012) Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-27 Rev. 2.1 Published 2017-08-18 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-11-03 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-10-27 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2017-08-18 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2010-08-30 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2012-09-24 Rev. 3.2 Revised 2015-10-27 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-27 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-13 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-08-27 Published 2009-08-10 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05 Published 2014-09-05 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-02-01 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-10-05 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-18 Rev. 1.2 Published 2018-09-07 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-13 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-11-03 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-08-27 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2017-09-27 Rev. 2.3 Revised 2020-02-14 Rev. 2.4 Revised 2021-02-26 Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-02-14 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-18 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-27 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2010-11-04 Rev. 2.1 Published 2012-08-27 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2015-08-27 Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-09-07 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-08-30 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2011-09-02 Published 2011-09-02 Rev. 3.2 Revised 2015-10-27 Rev. 3.3 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 4.1 Revised 2017-08-18 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-27 Published 2014-09-05 Published 2014-09-05 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-10-05 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2019-03-19 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-13 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-11-03 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-10-27 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-08-10 Rev. 3.1 Revised 2017-08-18 Rev. 3.2 Revised 2018-10-19 Rev. 4.1 Revised 2019-12-01 Deprecated Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Framework Supplements Rev 1.1 Deprecated 2014-09-05 (This document ha been superseded by BFDR-E) Rev. 1.2 Deprecated 2014-09-05 (This document ha been superseded by BFDR-E) Deprecated 2012-06-05 (This document ha been superseded by BFDR and HBS.) Deprecated 2014-06-06 (This document ha been superseded by EHDI.) Rev. 1.1 Deprecated 2018-01-31 Rev. 1.1 Deprecated 2018-01-31 Radiation Oncology Archives Current Published IHE Radiation Oncology Documents Technical Framework Revision 2.0 (Published 2020-04-07) Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation (as of July 2012) Published 2022-04-13 Published 2023-11-03 Published 2022-12-19 Published 2016-11-16 Published 2019-07-01 Published 2021-02-05 Superseded IHE Radiation Oncology Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 1.8 (Published 2014-06-26) Technical Framework Revision 1.7 (Published 2011-05-09) Technical Framework Revision 1.6 (Published 2007-08-18) Superseded Raditation Oncology Technical Framework Supplements (as of July 2012) Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-07-01 (Incorporated into Revision 2.0 of TF Volumes) Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-11-16 (Incorporated into Revision 2.0 of TF Volumes) Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-11-16 (Incorporated into Revision 2.0 of TF Volumes) Radiology Archives Current Published IHE Radiology Documents Technical Framework Revision 21.0 (Published 2023-06-15) Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation (as of July 2012) Rev. 1.2 Revised 2022-07-06 Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-08-06 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2019-04-25 Rev. 1.1 Published 2021-04-30 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2019-08-09 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-01-13 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-04-21 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-05-13 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2019-08-09 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2019-05-30 Rev. 1.0.0 Published 2023-10-04 Rev. 1.0.0 Published 2022-07-25 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 2.2 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-07-14 Management of Radiology Report Templates (MRRT) Revised 2018-07-27 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 20.0) Rev. 1.3 Revised 2023-06-15 Rev. 1.1 Published 2023-08-22 Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-04-22 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-12-14 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2019-08-09 Rev, 1.3 Revised 2023-06-15 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2018-07-27 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2023-06-15 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2023-06-15 Superseded IHE Radiology Documents The Technical Framework document below have been superseded by current version that are available at . The document below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current version for use in implementation. Technical Framework Revision 20.0 (Published 2022-03-10) Technical Framework Revision 19.0 (Published 2020-09-18) Technical Framework Revision 18.0 (Published 2019-08-09) Technical Framework Revision 17.0 (Published 2018-07-27) Technical Framework Revision 16.0 (Published 2017-08-04) Technical Framework Revision 15.0 (Published 2016-07-29) Technical Framework Revision 14.0 (Published 2015-07-24) Technical Framework Revision 13.0 (Published 2014-07-30) Technical Framework Revision 12.0 (Published 2013-09-06) Technical Framework Revision 11.0 (Published 2012-07-24) Technical Framework Revision 10.0 (Published 2011-02-18) Technical Framework Revision 9.0 (Published 2008-06-27) Superseded IHE Radiology Technical Framework Supplements (as of July 2012) Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-07-16 Rev. 1.1. Published 2010-11-16 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-07-24 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-06-12 Rev. 1.2 Published 2016-09-09 Rev 1.3 Revised 2018-07-27 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2019-04-23 Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-06-15 Rev. 1.2 Published 2013-09-06 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-07-30 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2018-07-27 Published 2009-06-21 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-07-30 Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-05-30 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-04-21 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 19.0) Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-06-01 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-04-21 Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-05-16 Rev. 1.2 Published 2013-09-06 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-09-29 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-04-21 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2017-07-14 Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-05-13 Rev. 1.1 Revised 2012-06-15 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-11-16 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11 Rev. 1.2 Published 2013-10-11 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-07-30 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-04-21 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2017-07-14 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2018-07-27 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 20.0) Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-05-30 (Deprecated 2017-09-15 and replaced with WIA) Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-09-30 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-07-24 Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-12-15 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-07-30 Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-04-21 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-07-24 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-07-29 Rev. 1.6 Revised 2018-07-27 Rev. 1.7 Revised 2019-08-09 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 19.0) Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-06-21 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2018-07-27 Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11 Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-03-22 Rev. 1.2 Published 2022-03-10 Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-04-21 Rev. 1.2 Published 2016-09-09 Rev. 1.3 Published 2019-08-09 Rev. 1.4 Revised 2020-08-06 Rev. 1.5 Revised 2022-03-10 Superseded IHE Radiology Technical Framework White Papers Rev. 2.0 Revised 2014-03-07 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Conformity Assessment IHE International administers the IHE Conformity Assessment Scheme (CAS), which form the basis for IHE Conformity Assessment Programs and any official certification of conformance to IHE Profiles associated with such testing programs. The CAS Scheme consists of two volumes: defines the necessary process for establishing and managing an IHE Conformity Assessment Program and for accrediting and operating testing labs. defines the standardized test method for assessing conformity to individual IHE Profiles. On the basis of the Conformity Assessment Scheme, test laboratory are accredited in accordance with the ISO/IEC 17025 standard, General Requirements for Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories. Test report produced in accordance with this standard are accepted worldwide. IHE International authorizes designated test laboratory accredited under this standard to ass the conformity of product with selected IHE profiles. Test Reports Test report for product that have completed Conformity Assessment testing administered by IHE Authorized Testing Laboratories are available . Profiles currently available for testing under the IHE International Conformity Assessment program are: Audit Trail and Node Authentication (ATNA) Consistent Time (CT) Cross-Community Access (XCA) Cross-Community Access for Imaging (XCA-I) Cross-Community Patient Discovery (XCPD) Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing (XDS.b) Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging (XDS-I) Cross-Enterprise User Assertion (XUA) Device Enterprise Communication (DEC) Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW) Patient Administration Management (PAM), Patient Demographics Query (PDQ), Patient Demographics Query HL7 v3 (PDQV3), Patient Identifier Cross-Referencing (PIX) Patient Identifier Cross-Referencing HL7 v3 (PIXV3) Point-of-Care Infusion Verification (PIV) Brief description of the interoperability benefit provided by each of these profile are provided . Vendors interested in obtaining a test report attesting to the conformity of their product are invited to contact an IHE authorized accredited test laboratory. Questions and feedback about the IHE Conformity Assessment program should be directed to . 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Connectathon IHE Connectathon: A Unique Testing Opportunity IHE Connectathons provide a detailed implementation and testing process to enable the adoption of standards-based interoperability by vendor and user of healthcare information systems. During a Connectathon system exchange information with corresponding system ina structured and supervised peer-to-peer testing environment, performing transaction required for the role (IHE actors)they have selected to perform in carefully defined interoperability use case (IHE profiles). Connectathons are held annually in Asia, Europe and North America. Thousands of vendor-to-vendor connection are tested each year. The result of testing are published in the . The Connectathon provides detailed validation of the participant interoperability and compliance with IHE profiles.Participating company prepare for the event using testing software developed for this purpose. Connectathons offer vendor a unique opportunity for connectivity testing, removing barrier to integration that would otherwise often need to be addressed on site, at the customer expense. Companies taking part have responded overwhelmingly that the IHE process address important issue in their product development plans. The link below provide information about scheduling and participation for upcoming Connectathon events. Connectathon Event Information 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Product Registry IHE Product Registry IHE ha developed a new Web-based database of Integration Statements. The enables developer to create, manage and publish Integration Statements for their commercial and open source healthcare IT systems. It allows user to browse for these system based on their conformance with specific IHE Actors and Profiles. The system is open for use by developer and user now! Contactwith question about IHE Integration Statements or the IHE Product Registry. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Testing Tools IHE ha developed a growing body of software tool to facilitate testing and implementation of IHE in healthcare information technology systems. These tool are available for download and licensed by their developer for free use. An index to the test tool available for testing IHE Profiles, along with link to the tool and documentation . 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IHE Domains IHE is organized by clinical and operational domains. In each domain user with clinical and operational experience identify integration and information sharing priority and vendor of relevant information system develop consensus, standards-based solution to address them. Each domain includes a technical committee, whose primary task is developing and documenting the solution (known a profiles), and a planning committee, whose primary task are long-term scope planning and organizing deployment activity (such a testing event and educational programs). Each domain develops and maintains it own set of documents. Coordination among domain is the responsibility of the Domain Coordination Committee, comprising representative from each of the domain planning and technical committees. The IHE domain are listed below with link to domain-specific information pages: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Cardiology IHE Cardiology wa formed in 2003 to address issue specific to clinical workflow, information sharing and improved patient care in the clinical domain of cardiology. Sponsorship is provided by the . Profiles The IHE Cardiology committee have defined the following , which are specified in detail in the : [CATH] Cardiac Cath Workflow integrates ordering, scheduling, imaging acquisition, storage and viewing for Cardiac Catheterization procedures. [ECHO] Echocardiography Workflow integrates ordering, scheduling, imaging acquisition, storage and viewing for digital echocardiography. [ECG] Retrieve ECG for Display provides access throughout the enterprise to electrocardiogram (ECG) document for review purposes. [ED] Evidence Documents add Cardiology-specific option to the Radiology ED profile. [IDCO] Implantable Device Cardiac Observation specifies the creation, transmission, and processing of discrete data element and report attachment associated with cardiac device interrogation (observations) or messages. [STRESS] Stress Testing Workflow provides ordering and collecting multi-modality data during diagnostic Stress testing procedure [DRPT] Displayable Reports distributes display ready (PDF) cardiology clinical report from the department to the enterprise. White Papers The white paper linked below provide more detailed information regarding the IHE Cardiology Profiles. Committees The IHE Cardiology Planning and Technical Committees develop and maintain the . These committee are composed of representative of stakeholder organization who are user or developer of cardiology-related clinical IT system and related infrastructure. The committee are international in scope. All qualified stakeholder are invited to join. Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant serve a representative of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the page. Email communication among participant in the committee take place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee list below. Visit the Google Group: Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Dental The IHE Dental Domain address the implementation of standards-based interoperability solution to improve information sharing, workflow and patient care. This domain, begun in 2011, is sponsored by the . IHE Profiles The IHE Dental Technical Framework Supplement will specify the following Dental Profiles. The technical framework is in development and is expected to be circulated for public review in November 2012. Secure Exchange of Dental Images (SEDI) Content Profile. DICOM E-mail Transport Integration Profile. Educational Materials The IHE Dental Domain ha available a presentation describing the . Committees The IHE Dental Domain consists of a combined . Detailed committee responsibility include: Planning Subcommittee Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposal Determining scope of development priority Communication and coordination of development activity with other IHE domain Technical Subcommittee Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priority Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposal Developing and maintaining the IHE Technical Framework is the address of the IHE dental listserve. To subscribe, or to suggest change or correction to this page, please contact Paul Bralower at dental@ihe.net. These committee are composed of representative of stakeholder organization who are user or developer of healthcare IT system and related infrastructure. The committee are international in scope. All qualified stakeholder are invited to join. Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant serve a representative of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the page. Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Devices The IHE Devices (DEV) domain wa formed in 2005 (under the name Patient Care Device) to address the integration of medical device into the healthcare enterprise, from the point-of-care to the EHR, potentially resulting in significant improvement in patient safety and quality of care. In 2006/2007 the first profile wa successfully developed, tested in a Connectathon and demonstrated at HIMSS 07, exchanging information from vital signs, physiological monitors, ventilators, infusion pumps, and anesthesia workstation with enterprise application such a clinical information systems. This enterprise-level integration is actively being extended to point-of-care integration, a well a to new workflow integration needs, such a alert communication management. IHE DEV is sponsored by the ,the and the . IHE Devices Profiles IHE Devices profile include: [ACM] Alert Communication Management enables the remote communication of point-of-care medical device alert condition ensuring the right alert with the right priority to the right individual with the right content (e.g., evidentiary data). It also support alarm escalation or confirmation based on dissemination status, such a whether the intended clinician ha received and acknowledged the condition. [DEC] Device Enterprise Communication support publication of information acquired from point-of-care medical device to application such a clinical information system and electronic health record systems, using a consistent messaging format and device semantic content. [DEC-SPD] Subscribe to Patient Data provides an optional extension to the DEC profile that support a filtering mechanism using a publish / subscribe mechanism for application to negotiate what device data they receive based on a set of client-specified predicates. [IDCO] Implantable Device Cardiac Observationspecifies the creation, transmission, and processing of discrete data element and report attachment associated with cardiac device interrogation (observations) or messages. [IPEC] Infusion Pump Event Communication allows an infusion system to send detailed non-alarm information on to allow the tracking and logging of the whole history of an infusion operation. [PIV] Point-of-care Infusion Verification support communication of a 5-Rights validated medication delivery / infusion order from a BCMA system to an infusion pump or pump management system, thus closing the loop. Optionally, the [DEC] profile may be used to selectively monitor the status of the device that have been programmed. [POI] Pulse Oximetry Integrationspecifies how implementers could use the existing DEC and PCD-01 transaction to exchange pulse oximetry observation set with clinical information systems. It constrains the existing transaction to better accommodate the content of pulse oximetry measurement observation. [RDQ]Retrospective Data Query allows for patient specific, user-initiated query of retrospective data store of clinical data (i.e., retrospective data) for the purpose of aligning those data under a common time frame with the appropriate resolution to support clinical decision making based on the retrospective data. The RDQ is therefore patient centric and collect data from various source (via multiple queries) to produce a comprehensive report that is meaningful to a given use case. [RTM] Rosetta Terminology Mapping establishes a set of tool (Excel spreadsheet & XML files) that map the proprietary semantics communicated by medical device today to a standard representation using ISO/IEEE 11073 semantics and UCUM unit of measurement. Additionally, the Rosetta table capture parameter co-constraints, specifying the set of unit of measurement, body sites, and enumerated value that may be associated with a given parameter, thus enabling even more rigorous validation of exchanged medical device semantic content. Each of these profile is defined in full detail in the . Profile and white paper development is active in the following areas: [DPI] Device Point-of-care Integrationbrings focus on device connectivity around a patient-centric point-of-care, including first link interface between device or a device manager / supervisor system. This activity includes initial development of a white paper, followed by a number of proposed profile such as: discovery and association, data reporting, symmetric (bi-directional) communication, and external control. [MEM] Medical Equipment Management investigates the question of how health I.T. might support the activity of clinical engineering / biomedical engineering staff, improving quality and workflow efficiency. Key topic include unique device identification, real-time location tracking, hardware/software configuration and patch management, battery management, and more. [PCIM] Point-of-care Identity Management is an investigation of the workflow and technical mean for associating the right device data with a particular patient, which is a critical patient safety requirement. [SA] Semantic Architecture White Paper will provide an overview of the sometimes bewildering subject of nomenclature, terminology and information model that are used to enable true semantic interoperability of patient care device information. It will also lay the groundwork for the new terminology development that is required to fill gap that have been identified, especially during [RTM] Rosetta profile development. [WCM] Waveform Communication Managementwill extend the [DEC] profile to provide a method for passing near real-time waveform data using HL7 v2 observation messages. For example, passing wave snippet a evidentiary data in an alarm message communicated using [ACM] transactions. PCD Planning and Technical Committees The IHE PCD Planning and Technical Committees are responsible for developing IHE integration profile and planning deployment activities, such a testing event and educational programs. The PCD committee are composed of user and developer of medical devices/systems and information systems. The membership of these and other IHE domain committees, along with schedule of activities, meeting agenda and minute and working document can be found on the . The provide up-to-date information on all development activities. The DEV Planning and Technical Committees have established Google Groups for e-mail communication. You can subscribe to these distribution list by visiting each Groups home page or using the form below: Committee Co-Chairs Planning Committee: Kurt Elliason, Thom Erickson, Ken Fuchs Technical Committee: Javier Espina, Tom Kowalczyk, Stefan Schlichting Visit the Google Group: Visit the Google Group: To Learn More The IHE Devices Domain welcome your interest and invite you to join. Just send an email to . Additional information and link to detailed description and documentation for the Devices Domain and it committee is available on IHE Wikis . 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Endoscopy The IHE Endoscopy domain wa formed in 2005 in Japan and address information sharing, workflow and patient care in digestive endoscopy. IHE Endoscopy Sponsors The IHE Endoscopy Domain is sponsored by: IHE Endoscopy Profiles A list of IHE Endoscopy profile is available on the Wiki page. Endoscopy Committees The Endoscopy Planning and Technical committee develop and maintain the . Detailed committee responsibility include: Planning Committee Develop and review Profile proposal Determine scope of development priority Communicate and coordinate development activity with other IHE domain Develop educational material in support of the Domain Technical Committee Assess the feasibility and scope of development priority Develop detailed documentation of approved Profile proposal Develop and maintain the Endoscopy Technical Framework Supplements These committee are composed of representative of stakeholder organizations. The committee are international in scope. All qualified stakeholder are invited to join. Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant must be associated with an . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available in the page. Please contact the secretary of the IHE Endoscopy committee to join the mailing list. The Endoscopy committee maintain their working document on dedicated page on the . There you can find committee rosters, schedule of committee activity and work in progress. Planning Committee: Hideto Yokoi Technical Committee: Shinichi Omori (also serf a secretary) Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Eye Care The IHE Eye Care domain wa formed in 2005 and is sponsored by the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO). The mission of the IHE Eye Care domain is to bring together information technology stakeholder and healthcare professional to implement standard for communicating patient information efficiently throughout healthcare facilities, large and small. Eye Care Profiles IHE Eye Care integration profile are specified in detail in the . These profile include: Eye Care Integration Profiles: [U-EYECARE] Unified Eye Care Workflow Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. It take the best feature of previously defined eye care workflows, combine them into one workflow profile, and provides more flexibility for three real world implementation model for system such a EHRs and PACS. Includes new workflow to incorporate refractive device with EHRs. [B-EYECARE] Basic Eye Care Workflow Retired Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. B-EYECARE is a subset of the feature defined A-EYECARE. [A-EYECARE] Advanced Eye Care Workflow Retired Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. Requires advanced DICOM workflow based upon Modality Performed Procedure Step and Storage Commitment. [C-EYECARE] Core Eye Care Workflow Retired Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. It establishes the eye care workflow for the scenario where the organization doe not integrate a centralized image archive (PACS). [EC-CHG] Eye Care Charge Posting Establishes the workflow to transfer charge information to the clinic or enterprise charge processing systems. [ECED] Eye Care Evidence Documents Established the workflow to manage evidence documents. Defines information such a observation measurements, and result (i.e., evidence documents), to be output by devices, such a acquisition system and other workstations. The evidence document are archived and can be retrieved for display. [ECDR] Eye Care Displayable Report Established the workflow to manage displayable reports. Uses DICOM Encapsulated PDF to capture eye care report (such a Visual Fields, OCT Reports, etc.) The PDF report are archived and can be retrieved for display. [ECAS] Eye Care Appointment Scheduling Established the workflow to manage patient appointment requests. Eye Care Content Profiles: [GEE] General Eye Evaluation Defines the document that is collected during a patient eye examination. It is based upon (and a super-set) of the HL7 Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) Implementation Guide which wa adopted by Meaningful Use 2 (MU2). GEE also enables implementation to populate the AAO IRIS Registry for patient examination information. [EC-Summary] Eye Care Summary Record Defines the document that is collected for a patient eye care summary medical record. It is based upon (and a super-set) of the HL7 Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) Implementation Guide which wa adopted by Meaningful Use 2 (MU2). It is a super-set of the C-CDA Continuity of Care (CCD) document. Current Activity IHE Eye Care ha combined the various eye care workflow into the profile named Unified Eye Care Workflow (U-EYECARE).U-EYECARE profile take the best feature of previously defined eye care workflows, combine them into one workflow profile and provides more flexibility for real world implementation model for system such a EHRs and PACS.IHE Eye Care also support C-CDA profile for eye care patient visit and patient summary. These profile are proper extension to MU2 requirement using C-CDA 1.1. Generate new C-CDA profile to capture Cataract Pre-Op Note, Op-Note and Post-Op notes. Will also generate an eye care general surgery OP-Note. Plan to release for public comment end of May and Trial Implementation in August 2017. Generate new C-CDA profile to capture Cataract Pre-Op Note, Op-Note and Post-Op notes. Will also generate an eye care general surgery OP-Note. Plan to release for public comment end of May and Trial Implementation in August 2017. Add anew data classification for auto-phoroptor refractive device into U-EYECARE based upon the JOIA specification. This supplement facility the incorporation of refractive measurement in EHR system via a XML-based data stream. 2nd Qtr. Begin working on eye care C-CDA workflow whitepaper based upon IHE ITI profiles, such a PIX, PDQ, XDS.b, etc. Plans are being made for the 2017 IHE Eye Care Connectathon, which will be held on October 23-26, 2017 at the RSNA headquarters in Oak Brook, Illinois. Committee Work The Eye Care Planning and Technical Committees maintain information about their current work and future plan on the . Demonstrations and Presentations The AAO sponsor public demonstration of real world clinical scenario in eye care showcasing the benefit of interoperability achieved using IHE Eye Care integration profiles. Information about these demonstrations, including the one at the AAO 2016 meeting in Chicago, is . Contact Email eyecare@ihe.net to contact committee co-chairs and/or subscribe to the list serve. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IT Infrastructure The IHE IT Infrastructure (ITI) domain address the implementation of standards-based interoperability solution to improve information sharing, workflowand patient care. This domain, begun in 2003, wa originally launched bysponsor . In 2008, joined HIMSS to help sponsor this domain adding additional user representation in Europe. Together they areresponsible for development and publication of the . IHE IT Infrastructure Profiles The specifies the ITI Profiles. See for a brief description of IT Infrastructure Profiles. Implementers should refer to the page for details. Educational Materials The ha published a series of slide presentation for use by all party interested in interoperability, electronic health record and health information exchange. The goal of the material is to connect the dot between the problem and the solution defined by ITI profiles. It is geared to an audience which is familiar with healthcare interoperability problem in general but is not familiar with the way IHE address problem or the specific profile provided by ITI. Both MS PowerPoint slide set a well a webinars presented by subject matter expert are available for public use. Implementation Material The IT Infrastructure Technical Committee supply which is informative content useful for implementers of ITI profiles. This includes examples, schema and wsdl. Committees The ITI Planning and Technical committee develop and maintain the . Detailed committee responsibility include: Planning Committee Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposal Determining scope of development priority Communication and coordination of development activity with other IHE domain Developing educational material in support of the ITI Domain Technical Committee Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priority Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposal Developing and maintaining the IHE Technical Framework These committee are composed of representative of stakeholder organization who are user or developer of healthcare IT system and related infrastructure. The committee are international in scope. All qualified stakeholder areinvitedto join. Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant must be associated with a . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available in the page. You can contact the secretary of the IHE ITI committee via email at . The ITI committee maintain their working document on dedicated page on the . There you can find committee rosters, schedule of committee activity and work in progress. Committee Co-Chairs Planning Committee: John Moehrke, Steven Nichols Technical Committee: Luke Duncan, Oliver Egger Email communication among participant in the committee take place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee list below. Visit the Google Group: Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Pathology and Laboratory Medicine IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine domain address information sharing and workflow related to in vitro diagnostic testing in anatomic pathology, clinical laboratories, a well a at the point of care. IHE PaLM is sponsored by the , , and the . Together, we are responsible for development and publication of the IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine . IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Profiles Committees The PaLM Planning and Technical Committees develop and maintain the . Detailed committee responsibility include: Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposal Determining scope of development priority Communication and coordination of development activity with other IHE domain Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priority Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposal Developing and maintaining the IHE Technical Framework These committee are composed of representative of stakeholder organization who are user or developer of healthcare IT system and related infrastructure. The committee are international in scope. All qualified stakeholder are invited to join. Participation is voluntary and open to IHE member only, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant serve a representative of IHE Member Organizations. Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the . The PaLM committee maintains working document on dedicated page on the . There you can find committee rosters, schedule of committee activity and work in progress. For a list of product supporting IHE PaLM Profiles with published IHE Integration Statements see the . Email communication among participant in the committee take place through the Google Group maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee list below. Other IHE mailing list can be found . Committee Co-Chairs Planning Committee: Rajesh Chandra Dash, Riki Merrick Technical Committee: Alesandro Sulis, Kenichi Takahashi Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Patient Care Coordination The Patient Care Coordination (PCC) domain wa established in 2005 to deal with integration issue that cross providers, patient problem or time. It deal with general clinical care aspect such a document exchange, order processing, and coordination with other specialty domains. PCC also address workflow that are common to multiple specialty area and the integration need of specialty area that do not have a separate domain within IHE. The PCC Domain is sponsored by: (Health Information Management Systems Society) (American College of Physicians) IHE Patient Care Coordination Profiles Integration profile defined by the PCC Technical Committee are published in the . Brief description of these profile are and more detailed summary are . How do I Participate? As a Clinician / Patient Advocate Get involved in the planning committee. This is where the clinical problem are discussed and prioritized. The planning committee is an open group and is interested in having your input! Bring u your interoperability problems! You can also help by participating in the annual HIMSS Interoperability Showcase scenario definitions. You can do this by: Send u a note saying youre interested so we can get you on the list-serves. Come to face to face meetings, and attend the telephone conferences. Submit your profile proposal by: Fill out thistemplate. Submit the proposal draft to. Attend the planning meeting to help clarify and prioritize your proposal Follow up by submitting a the formal proposal Attend the joint planning/technical meeting to explain your idea to the technical committee Any additional resource you can provide toward the problem will help prioritize getting your proposal solidified more quickly. As a Hospital Administrator In addition to getting involved in the planning committee, hold your vendor accountable. Put a statement in your RFP that indicates you want the vendor to support the actor in the profile you desire. As an Implementer Get involved in the Technical Committee to help ensureprofiles arefeasible and will work for you. Implement the profile, and come experience the Connectathon. Committees Committee Co-Chairs Andrea Fourquet Kendra Wyatt email: pcc@ihe.net Visit the Google Group: Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Pharmacy IHE Pharmacy (PHARM) address information sharing, workflow and patient care in both community and hospital pharmacies. The Pharmacy domain, begun in 2009, is sponsored by the, theand . Together, they areresponsible for development and publication of the . IHE PHARM Profiles IHE Pharmacy ha published the following profile supplement for trial implementation: Common Parts Document Community Dispense (DIS) Community Medication Administration (CMA) Community Medication List (PML) Community Medication Prescription and Dispense (CMPD Community Medication Treatment Plan (MTP) Community Pharmaceutical Advice (PADV) Community Prescription (PRE) Hospital Medication Workflow (HMW) These document are available for downloading on the. Brief description of the profile are. Strategic Priorities The Pharmacy domain currently plan work in the following areas: Improve information exchange between healthcare provider and organization that depend on pharmacy-related workflow and process Develop way to automate collaborative workflow between physician and pharmacist in both community and hospital pharmacy environment Promote widespread adoption and implementation of IHE PHARM profile in Europe, North America, Asia and worldwide Liaison with the European Union epSOS project The dominant theme for the next few year will involve work around community pharmacy workflows, hospital pharmacy workflows, medication documentation and hospital supply chain. Educational Materials The ha published a series of slide presentation for use by all party interested in interoperability, community and hospital pharmacy and medication information management. The goal of the material is to connect the dot between the problem and the solution defined by PHARM profiles. It is geared to an audience which is familiar with healthcare interoperability problem in general but is not familiar with the way IHE address problem or the specific profile provided by PHARM. Committees The Pharmacy Planning and Technical committee are combined. The committee develops and maintains the . Detailed committee responsibility include: Planning Committee Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposal Determining scope of development priority Communication and coordination of development activity with other IHE domain Technical Committee Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priority Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposal Developing and maintaining the Pharmacy Technical Framework This combined committee is composed of representative of stakeholder organization who are user or developer of healthcare IT system and related to medication management. This committee is international in scope. All qualified stakeholder areinvitedto join. Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant serve a representative of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the page. You can contact the secretary and the co-chairs of the IHE Pharmacy committee via email at . The Pharmacy committee maintains their working document on dedicated page on the . There you can find committee roster, schedule of committee activity and work in progress. Email communication among participant in the committee take place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee list below. Committee Co-Chairs Planning Committee: Trudy Hagg, Jose Costa Teixeira Technical Committee: Jurgen Brandstatter Request to join the discussion list: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Quality, Research and Public Health The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) domain address the information exchange and electronic health record content standard necessary to share information relevant to quality improvement in patient care, clinical research and public health monitoring. The QRPH domain wa formed in 2007 to address use case related to repurposing of clinical data for these critical secondary uses. Globally there is a need to gather and report on secondary data used in public health, clinical decision support, quality measure reporting and research to improve the quality, efficiency and safety of patient care delivery. Clinical, demographic and financial information is routinely gathered and used in the process of providing clinical care. This information ha significant value to public health agency for monitoring disease pattern of known clinical process (including incidence, prevalence and situational awareness) and for identifying new pattern of disease. Such data may be used to develop population analysis and program for direct outreach and condition management through registry and locally determined appropriate treatment program or protocols. Similarly, information about care process delivered to patient can be used to identify adherence to expected evidence-based clinical care protocol and to ass outcome and quality of care provided by individual clinician or group of clinicians. Much of the data required for quality analysis exists within the clinical patient record and can be repurposed for analysis. The protocol for subsequent management of clinician and individual patient with respect to quality data are often addressed a performance improvement or disease management initiatives. Research and clinical studies, likewise, require identification of pattern of clinical presentation to select patient for inclusion (with consent) in research protocols. Subsequent study execution , requires infrastructure and detailed content gathering capability similar to those required by quality initiative and public health. The QRPH domain address specification for patient selection, individual and aggregate date reporting, and privacy and security constraint for re-use of patient information, enabling expert in health quality, research and public health to collaborate and coordinate their activities. The current sponsor of the QRPH domain are the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), and the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA). Information on committee membership and current activity is available on the or by contacting the domain secretary at . Use the link below to download the technical framework and supplement document published by the committee,vieworsubscribetocommitteemailinglists(viaGoogleGroups) andviewadetailedcalendarofcommitteeactivities. IHE Quality, Research, and Public Health Profiles The QRPH Technical Committee ha published the following profile supplements. This list represents a sampling of the supplement published by the QRPH Technical Committee. Brief summary description of the profile are listed below. Detailed specification of all QRPH profile are contained at . profile provides a mean to capture and communicate information needed to report birth and fetal death for vital registration purposes. BFDR-E build upon the earlier Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDR) Profile that utilizes actor and transaction defined in the ITI Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) Profile to capture structured data using digital forms. Clinical Research Document (CRD)describes content pertinent to the clinical research use case required within the IT Infrastructure Retrieve Form for Data-Capture (RFD) pre-population parameter. Clinical Research Process Content (CRPC)specifies content, which is appropriate to help automate the sharing of information among system during the clinical research process using the transaction from the Retrieve Process for Execution (RPE) profile. Using the transaction from the Retrieve Process for Execution (RPE) profile, CRPC will improve the recruitment for, setup, and performance of clinical studies. Data Element Exchange (DEX)leverages the concept of a metadata registry to add mapping metadata to an annotated data capture form at the point of form design instead of the exchange of data instances. Drug Safety Content (DSC)describes content pertinent to the drug safety use case required within the IT Infrastructure Retrieve Form for Data-Capture (RFD) pre-population parameter. Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) describes a family of profile that help to assess, track, treat, and perform quality metric initiative related to newborn hearing. describes the use of ITIs RFD to report encounter-level family planning clinical visits. The profile describes the basic data element that are needed to report quality metrics, a new Family Planning Pre-pop document in alignment with PCC conventions, and map the data element to CDA (consisting of the Header, Pregnancy History, Pregnancy Status Review, Coded Vital Signs, Coded Social History, Coded Care Plan, and Coded Results sections). Healthy Weight (HW) capture and communicates information for managing and monitoring healthy weight among clinical and public health surveillance systems. describes an exchange of context information that allows a seamless form launch and FHIR-based exchange of clinical data. Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI) describes the content needed to communicate a timely newborn admission notification to public health to be used by Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) screening programs. defines the data element to be retrieved from the EMR and transmitted to the cancer registry or to a healthcare provider. Quality Measure Execution-Early Hearing (QME-EH) describes the content needed to communicate patient-level data to electronically monitor the performance of early hearing-loss detection and intervention (EHDI) initiative for newborn and young children. Redaction Services (RSP) redact data from a document in a user current application to meet the requirement for exporting to an external system. Research Matching (RM) publishes research process definition to EHR system to match patient and investigator with appropriate research studies. Retrieve Process for Execution (RPE)enables a healthcare provider to access a process definition, such a a research protocol and to execute automated activities, without leaving an EMR session. profile utilized the IHE Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) profile for retrieving and submitting form in a standardized and structured format. This supplement is based on the work of the US Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, Standards & Interoperability (S&I) Framework SDC Initiative. defines a Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) content profile that will specify derivation of source content from a medical summary document. by defining requirement for form filler content and form manager handling of the content. Committees QRPH Committee Co-Chairs: Planning Committee: Lori Fourquet, e-HealthSign, LLC Technical Committee: John Stamm, Epic Visit the Google Group: Visit the Google Group: 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Radiology IHE Radiology wa formed in 1998 to address issue of interoperability and information sharing that impact the quality of care in medical imaging. It ha developed and documented standards-based solution to these problem and organized testing and education to foster their adoption. IHE solution are now available in hundred of commercial radiology-related information system and are implemented in care site around the world. IHE Radiology is sponsored by the . IHE Radiology Profiles Brief description of the IHE Radiology profile are available on the IHE Wiki at Profiles that have reached final text status are defined in full detail in the IHE Radiology Technical Framework found . Trial Implementation supplement are available and supplement in their public comment phase (if any) are available . Radiology Committees The IHE Radiology Planning and Technical Committees are responsible for developing IHE integration profiles, maintaining the , and planning deployment activities, such a testing event and educational programs, in the domain of radiology. The committee are composed of user and developer of imaging and information systems. The membership of these and other IHE domain committees, along with schedule of activities, meeting agenda and minute and working document can be found in the Radiology section of the . These committee are composed of representative of stakeholder organization who are user or developer of radiology-related healthcare IT systems. The committee are international in scope. All qualified stakeholder are invited to join. Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participant must take part regularly in committee meeting and teleconference and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participant serve a representative of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the page. You can contact the secretary of the IHE ITI committee via email at . Committee Co-Chairs Planning Committee: Christopher Roth, MD, Duke University Health System; Brad Genereaux, SIIM Technical Committee: Wim Corbijn van Willenswaard, Philips Healthcare; Andrei Leontiev, Visage Imaging Email communication among participant in the committee take place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee list below. Visit the Google Group: Visit the Google Group: Mammography The IHE Mammography Subcommittee of the IHE Radiology Technical Committee brings together user and developer of mammography imaging and information systems. They define standards-based solutions, called integration profiles, to address interoperability and information sharing problem that impact patient care in mammography. IHE drive the adoption of integration profile by building industry consensus, educating developer and users, and testing and demonstrating system that conform to them. The Mammography Image Integration Profile (MAMMO) specifies how DICOM Mammography image and evidence object are created, exchanged and used. It is currently published in a Trial Implementation draft, which will be used for testing at Connectathons in 2007. Go to download and submit comment on this supplement to the . IHE ha published a brochure, Going Digital: An IHE Guide for Mammography , which provides answer to commonly asked question about using IHE to make the transition to digital mammography. IHE ha also published a more detailed reference, the . Subscribe to the Mammography Subcommittees email distribution list below. Visit the Google Group: Other Resources Among the information resource and other tool IHE Radiology provides for user and developer of healthcare IT system in radiology are: providing detailed specification for implementing IHE Profiles providing guidance on implementing IHE profile to achieve interoperability in radiology Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise: A Primer by David S. Channin, MD, Eliot L. Siegel, MD, et al: A five-part series published in 2001 in the journal RadioGraphics, providing insight into IHE it benefit for radiology: [] developed to help implementers of IHE profile in healthcare IT system Contact For further information, contact RSNA staff at . 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IHE Worldwide IHE national deployment committee have been established in 17 country across the globe. They are sanctioned by IHE International to conduct testing, education, outreach, collaboration with local health agency and other deployment-related activities. The link at left provide access to information about these organization and their activities. Many IHE national deployment committee coordinate their activity through regional groupings, a shown at left. All national deployment committee also participate in the IHE Global Deployment Coordination Committee (GDC). This committee meet regularly to coordinate planning of major IHE activity and to share resource and best practices. IHE National/Regional Deployment report can be found . . Organizations that wish to establish and sponsor IHE national deployment committee should complete the application and send to to learn about organizing and planning your application. IHE International ha periodically held World Summits in location around the world to bring together leader of IHE national deployment committee and other stakeholder organization from 21 countries. and subscribe to receive information about future IHE International event by . IHE Deployment Committees Worldwide Czech Republic Australia China Korea 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site About IHE IHE is an initiative by healthcare professional and industry to improve the way computer system in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standard such a DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical need in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care provider to use information more effectively. Vision Enable seamless and secure access to health information that is usable whenever and wherever needed. Mission IHE enables health system and care delivery network to adopt interoperable digital workflow that support evidence- and value-based health services. IHE develops workflow-based interoperability specification and provides testing and validation capability that support the governance of health IT ecosystem a the foundation for health systems, care delivery network and industry to improve health outcomes. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site FAQ Frequently Asked Questions What is IHE? IHE is an initiative by healthcare professional and industry to improve the way computer system in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standard such a DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical need in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care provider to use information more effectively. Physicians, medical specialists, nurses, administrator and other care provider envision a day when vital information can be passed seamlessly from system to system within and across department and made readily available at the point of care. IHE is designed to make their vision a reality by improving the state of system integration and removing barrier to optimal patient care. Why is IHE needed? Optimal patient care requires efficient access to all relevant information. Despite the advanced state of technology, however, healthcare enterprise have not yet begun to realize the full potential of computer system to reduce medical errors, improve the efficiency of care provider and enhance the overall quality of clinical care. To do so requires a framework for information sharing that meet the need of care provider a well a patientsand gain acceptance among the company that build the system they rely on. Standards provide the basis for such a framework, but alone do not solve the problem. In any standard there are gaps, options, room for conflicting interpretations. No standard map perfectly to the complex and ever-changing information domain of a healthcare enterprise. Filling the gap between standard and system integration has, until now, required expensive, site-specific interface development. To close that gap a process for building a detailed framework for the implementation of standard is needed. IHE provides that process. What can IHE do for me? Clinicians: Care provider are hampered by system that do not share information effectively. Vital patient information may be missing or difficult to access. Redundant entry of information, aside from being inefficient, lead to error and mismatch that must be corrected or reconciled. Care decision frequently must be made without a comprehensive view of current patient information. IHE offer a framework for information sharing designed to optimize clinical workflow. Systems implemented in accordance with IHE can streamline the flow of clinical information, reduce error and improve efficiency. IHE strengthens the information link between different departments-for example, between referring physician and consulting physicians-to enable the enterprise to function a a single unit in providing optimal clinical care. Information Technology Professionals: Interfacing system is one of the key challenge faced by any healthcare institution IT staff. Understanding the differing implementation of standard in various vendor system and trying to find way to reconcile them is an expensive, labor-intensive and often painful process. IHE offer a common framework for vendors, IT departments, clinical user and consultant to understand and address clinical integration needs. The IHE Technical Framework allows flexibility while ensuring that key integration need are met. Healthcare Administrators: Administrators must balance technical, fiscal, clinical and personnel constraint in making operational and purchasing decisions. Inadequate system integration impact many aspect of a clinical department of concern to administrators: financial performance, cost of information technology, efficiency of personnel and, most importantly, the quality of care. IHE eas this burden by offering a clear path toward acquiring integrated systems. Referring to IHE Integration Profiles in RFPs and purchasing agreement allows purchaser and vendor to agree on the interoperability of system being acquired or upgraded, making multi-vendor, best-of-breed solution more feasible. It enables information technology specialist to concentrate on improving the core functionality of systems, rather than developing and maintaining redundant, point-to-point interfaces. Finally, it make it possible to implement a streamlined workflow so that care provider can make more efficient use of their time. How doe IHE work? IHE involves an intensive, ongoing process of collaboration and communication among key parties, which can be divided into four phases: Problem Identification: Clinicians and IT expert identify common integration problem in access to information, clinical workflow, administration and underlying infrastructure. Integration Profile Specification: Stakeholders select standard that address each identified integration need. The technical specification for implementing these standard are documented in the IHE Technical Framework. Implementation and Testing: Vendors implement these profile and test their system with software tool and at a face-to-face Connectathon, where they test interoperability with other vendor systems. Integration Statements and RFPs: Vendors publish IHE Integration Statements to document the integration profile supported by their products. Users can reference integration profile in request for proposals, simplifying the system acquisition process. Learn about the . Who is IHE? IHE is sponsored by association of healthcare professional around the world and ha welcomed participation by many of the leading manufacturer of imaging and information systems. Volunteer member of these associations, including clinician and other care providers, healthcare executive and information technology experts, play a key role in guiding the development of IHE and determining priority for integration. They collaborate with vendor representative to identify obstacle to integration and optimal care and remove them by developing and implementing standards-based solution for information sharing. IHE International, the organization overseeing the development and publication of IHE Technical Frameworks worldwide, is sponsored by the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) and the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA). IHE ha expanded continually and developed strong international support. The list below identifies the organization that currently sponsor IHE initiative and domains. Other group representing healthcare stakeholder are invited to participate. National/Regional IHE Initiative Sponsors IHE North America (IHE-NA) American Academy of Ophthalmologists (AAO) American College of Cardiology (ACC) American College of Clinical Engineering (ACCE) American College of Physicians (ACP) American Heart Association (AHA) American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO) Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine IHE Europe (IHE-EUR) European Association of Radiology (EAR) European Congress of Radiologists (ECR) Coordination Committee of the Radiological and Electromedical Industries (COCIR) Deutsche Rntgengesellschaft (DRG) EuroPACS Association Groupement pour la Modernisation du Systme dInformation Hospitalier (GMSIH) Socit Francaise de Radiologie (SFR) Societ Italiana di Radiologia Medica (SIRM) British Institute of Radiology (BIR) College of Radiographers Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine NHS Information Authority Royal College of Radiologists (RCR) IHE Japan (IHE-J) Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare MEDIS-DC Japan Industries Association of Radiological Systems (JIRA) Japan Association of Healthcare Information Systems Industry (JAHIS) Japan Radiological Society (JRS) Japan Society of Radiological Technology (JSRT) Japan Association of Medical Informatics (JAMI) IHE Domain Sponsors Anatomic Pathology Groupement pour la Modernisation du Systme dInformation Hospitalier (GMSIH) Association pour le Dveloppement de lInformatique en Cytologie et Anatomo-Pathologie Cardiology American College of Cardiology Eye Care American Academy of Ophthalmology IT Infrastructure Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Laboratory Groupement pour la Modernisation du Systme dInformation Hospitalier (GMSIH) Socit dInformatique de Laboratoire (SFIL) Patient Care Coordination American College of Physicians Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Patient Care Device American College of Clinical Engineering (ACCE) Health Information Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Pharmacy European Association of Hospital Pharmacists Nationaal ICT Instituut in de Zorg (NICTIZ) Phast Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) American Heart Association (AHA) Health Information Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) Radiation Oncology American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO) Radiology Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) In addition to these sponsoring organizations, IHE boast more than 135 member organizations. See the current list of . Want to become an ? How did IHE get started? IHE began in 1998 with the mutual realization by HIMSS and RSNA that through cooperative effort they could promote a higher level of interoperability among imaging and information systems. Both organization were aware that public event could help drive the integration process by encouraging the participation of vendor and raising the awareness of user and purchasers. They convened a working group of their key members, industry representatives, standard expert and others. This group outlined an approach that led, a year later, to the formation of the IHE Planning and Technical committees. These committee have worked continuously and intensively since that time. What area of healthcare doe IHE address? IHE promotes integration within and across all unit of the healthcare enterprise. The initial success of IHE were achieved in radiology and IHE Radiology remains very active. The IHE process ha since been adopted in other domains, a well. Working in coordination with the others, each of these domain will develop it own Technical Framework and Integration Profiles, and implement it own part of the testing and demonstration process. Domains frequently work together on profile of common interest. Several IHE domain address interoperability issue of interest to multiple clinical fields. The currently active IHE domain are: Nuclear Medicine Further information on each of the IHE domain is available on their respective home pages, linked above. What is the IHE Technical Framework? The IHE Technical Framework is a detailed, rigorously organized document that provides a comprehensive guide to implementing the defined integration capabilities. The Technical Framework delineates standards-based transaction among system (generically defined a IHE Actors) required to support specific workflow and integration capabilities. Click here to see a graphical representation of the organization of information in the Technical Framework. IHE Actors: Information system or application that produce, manage or act on information are represented a functional unit called IHE Actors. Each actor support a specific set of IHE transactions. A given information system may support one or more IHE actors. Transactions: Transactions are exchange of information between actor using message based on established standard (such a HL7, DICOM and W3C). Each transaction is defined with reference to a specific standard and additional detailed information, including use cases. This is done to add greater specificity and ensure a higher level of interoperability between systems. See the current version of the . What are IHE Profiles? IHE Integration Profiles organize set of IHE actor and transaction in order to address specific patient care needs. Integration Profiles offer a convenient way for vendor and user to reference the functionality defined in the IHE Technical Framework without having to restate all of the detail regarding IHE actor and transactions. They describe clinical information and workflow need and specify the actor and transaction required to address them. See brief description of the current . What are IHE Integration Statements? IHE Integration Statements are document prepared and published by vendor to describe the intended conformance of their product with the IHE Technical Framework. They identify the specific integration capability a product is designed to support in term of the key concept of IHE: Actors and Integration Profiles. How do I use IHE? How you use IHE depends on your specific role and your specific needs. Clinicians and administrator should be aware of the clinical and operational benefit that can be realized through IHE Integration Profiles and encourage their department to demand those capability when acquiring or upgrading systems. Information technology professional should know how to use IHE Integration Profiles in RFPs and purchasing agreement and should familiarize themselves with section of the Technical Framework that describe interface between system under their supervision. Developers and system integrator should have a detailed knowledge of the section of the Technical Framework relevant to their systems. If IHE is about achieving a common language for integration, then an analogy can be made to how one us various resource to understand a foreign language Standards such a DICOM and HL7 provide the vocabulary and basic grammar for the language of integration. The Technical Framework organizes these element somewhat like a language textbook, fitting together the most relevant piece and eliminating confusion and ambiguity. Integration Profiles are like a phrase book for essential communications. They further organize the language to enable vendor and purchaser to communicate about system integration-even if DICOM or HL7 is not their native language. IHE can make system integration faster, more efficient, le expensive and more successful. Standards-based integration solution like those defined in IHE are flexible, durable, easier to implement and le expensive to maintain than proprietary methods. Achieving system integration through IHE is a dramatic step toward providing optimal patient care. How can I find out more about IHE? The ihe.net website includes an array of information resource for developer and user of healthcare IT systems. An overview is available at . You can learn more about IHE by attending demonstration and presentation at the medical professional society meeting other major medical gatherings. For further information about IHE, including how to become involved, contact the staff of IHE sponsoring organization at . 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Governance Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) International, Incorporated is a non-profit organization incorporated under the law of the State of Illinois, U.S.A. IHE International enables user and developer of healthcare information technology to achieve interoperability of system through the precise definition of healthcare tasks, the specification of standards-based communication between system required to support those task and the testing of system to determine that they conform to the specifications. The work is managed by IHE committee and sponsored by various national and international bodies. IHE International Principles of Governance The describes the organization, policy and procedure of IHE International, Inc. It wa officially adopted by the Board of IHE International on October 5, 2007. The current amended version wa adopted April 12, 2024. Changes to the Principles of Governance and other governance document of IHE International can be proposed through the document change request process described . General comment can be submitted to the Secretariat of IHE International: Christopher Carr Director of Informatics Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) Board Secretary, IHE International, Inc. Intellectual Property The intellectual property policy of IHE International are described fully in Appendix A of the IHE International Principles of Governance. These policy include a duty for IHE Member Organizations (section A.3). Membership IHE International is composed of interested in improving the interoperability of healthcare information systems. An organization that becomes a member of IHE International may designate representative to participate in Domain Committees and National/Regional Deployment Committees relevant to it interests. Organizations interested in applying to become member of IHE should complete the online form linked below. The application process requires submitting a copy of the Declaration, which bind the organization to the IHE Principles of Governance, including it intellectual property provisions, signed by a duly authorized representative of the applicant organization. Member organization application will be reviewed for approval at the next meeting of the IHE International Board following their submission. Domain Committees These committee develop and maintain the IHE Technical Frameworks addressing interoperability in their respective clinical and operational area of healthcare. Currently, the active IHE domain are: Nuclear Medicine IHE member organization may propose new IHE domain for consideration by the IHE International Board: National/Regional Deployment Committees Deployment committee based in a given country or group of country promote the appropriate use within their respective geographic area of the specification defined in the IHE Technical Frameworks. The active IHE National and Regional Deployment Committees include: IHE Asia-Oceania IHE North America South America Middle East IHE member organization may propose new IHE national or regional deployment committee for consideration by the IHE International Board. IHE International Board The is the primary governing committee for all IHE development activities. It is composed of representative from each of the IHE Domains, National and Regional IHE Initiatives, and IHE Sponsor Organizations. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IHE Process Engaging HIT Stakeholders in a Proven Process IHE brings together user and developer of healthcare information technology (HIT) in an annually recurring four-step process: Clinical and technical expert define critical use case for information sharing. Technical expert create detailed specification for communication among system to address these use cases, selecting and optimizing established standards. Industry implement these specification called IHE Profiles in HIT systems. IHE test vendor system at carefully planned and supervised event called Connectathons. IHE also organizes demonstration of IHE-compliant system working in real-world clinical scenario at medical meeting and other venues. Domain Committees: Meeting Critical Interoperability Needs IHE committee follow the four-step annual process to address interoperability in a variety of clinical domains: Cardiology Dental Devices Endoscopy Eye Care IT Infrastructure Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Patient Care Coordination Pharmacy Quality, Research and Public Health Radiation Oncology Radiology Surgery IHE invite clinical and technical domain expert to become leader in this work by participating in IHE domain committee or reviewing the document they publish for public comment. More than100 -professional societies, government agencies, provider organizations, HIT company and others-have joined the IHE initiative worldwide. Integration Profiles: A Framework for Interoperability IHE Profiles provide a standards-based framework for sharing information within care site and across networks. They address critical interoperability issue related to information access for care provider and patients, clinical workflow, security, administration and information infrastructure. Each profile defines the actors, transaction and information content required to address the clinical use case by referencing appropriate standards. See capsule description of . IHE Profiles are compiled into IHE Technical Frameworks-detailed technical document that serve a implementation guide and freely available online. Connectathons: Testing Interoperability and Conformance IHE ha been testing the interoperability of HIT system for more than a decade. At held regularly in several location internationally, trained technical expert supervise testing of vendor systems, making use of advanced testing software developed by IHE and several partner organizations. More than 250 vendor worldwide have implemented and tested product with IHE capabilities. For more information contact . Product Registry and User Handbooks: Advice for Purchasers and Implementers The provides essential information for IT administrator and executive responsible for purchasing and integrating system at healthcare site and health information exchanges. Detailed result of testing at IHE Connectathons over the past several year in Europe, North America and Asia are made available in this easy-to-use online database. These result are cross-linked to IHE Integration Statements- conformance commitment of the IHE capability of commercial products-from dozen of vendor worldwide. IHE also provides domain-specific guidance for purchaser and implementers of HIT system in the form of . Supporting Health Information Networks Worldwide Carefully implemented interoperability standard are the foundation of EHRs, PHRs (personal health records) and health information exchange being established around the world. IHE ha developed a foundational set of profile for secure exchange of patient information across enterprises. IHE profile support health information network in Canada and the U.S.A, a well a several Asian and European countries, and have been accepted a requirement by the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services for federal procurement of healthcare IT systems. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Member Organizations IHE International is composed of more than 100 member organization from around the world committed to improving the interoperability of healthcare information systems. An organization that becomes a member of IHE International may designate representative to participate in Domain Committees and National/Regional Deployment Committees relevant to it interests. Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Canada Health Infoway IHE Catalyst Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) Australian Digital Health Agency American Academy of Ophthalmology American Association of Physicists in Medicine American College of Radiology Australian Digital Health Agency Canada Health Infoway Inc Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Centrum e-Zdrowia (e-Health Centre) COCIR College of American Pathologists European Society of Radiology Finnish Social and Health Informatics Association GUIG / Entscheiderfabrik Intrahealth International Japanese Association of Healthcare Information Systems Industry (JAHIS) Michigan Health Information Network Shared Services Ontario Health OR.NET E.V. Pan African Health Informatics in Africa (HELINA) PATH Radiology Business Management Association Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine The MITRE Corporation The Sequoia Project U.S. Food and Drug Administration U.S. Social Security Administration 3fs Nordic AB A-Thon SRL Accuray Advarra AGFA Healthcare ahdis ag Arterys B. Braun Medical Baxter Healthcare BD Biomerieux Blackford Analysis Ltd BrainLAB Burai LLC By Light Professional IT Services Inc. Canon Medical Systems Carl Zeiss Meditec AG Ceiba Healthcare Inc. Cerner Change Healthcare CliniSys CodaMetrix CodeWerk Software Services and Development GmbH Connexall Corista Cosylab d.d., Control System Laboratory Draeger Medical Systems Inc. ecGroup Inc. Edenlab Elekta AB Epic Systems Corporation European IT Consultancy EITOC GmbH Everrtech Software Pvt Ltd Founda Health BV Fresenius-Kabi Fresenius Vial SAS Gabos Software SP. Z O.O. GE Gnomon Informatics SA Guard RFID Solutions HLN Consulting, LLC Hyperfine, Inc. IBA Particle Therapy IBM Watson Health ICU MEDICAL, Inc. InnoVision Medical Insygnia Consulting Intepro Solutions Inc Interlinx Systems Inc Interoplab B.V. InteropEhealth Kereval Kno2 Laitek Inc. LJB Consulting Inc. Logemed Sarl Lyniate M.H. Nusbaum & Associates Ltd MedAllies, Inc. Medsynaptic Pvt Ltd Mevion Medical Systems Mindray DS USA, Inc NIPK Electron Co Optimization Zorn Corporation/Oz Systems OrganAI Health PACSHealth LLC Paul Schluter Consulting Philips Physician Technology Services Inc Pomegranate E-Consulting LLC Practical Health Interoperability LLC Quantek Systems Qvera R Group Rachel Foerster & Associates Ltd Rad AI RADiQ Image Information Systems Pvt. Ltd Raster Images Pvt. Ltd. RaySearch Laboratories Rhoads Systems Inc SanctiPHI Tech Inc Sectra Imit Shanghai United Imaging Healthcare Co. Siemens Healthineers Spok Varian Medical Systems Vernetzt LLC ViewRay Visage Imaging VISUS Health IT GmbH x-tention Informationstechnologie GmbH Zeora BVBA Chongqing University Department of Radiology Duke University Hospital Department of Radiology The Mount Sinai Hospital Icahn School of Medicine Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires Pentacomp Systemy Informatyczne S.A. UCSF Radiology and Biomedical Imaging University Hospitals of Geneva University of Pennsylvania Baystate Health CEN / TC 251 China National Institute of Standardization Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Danish Standards Foundation GS1 Global GS1 Netherlands GS1 Switzerland Health Level 7 Inc. HealthShare Exchange of Southeastern PA, Inc. InteropSante IVD Industry Connectivity Consortium (IICC) National Council For Prescription Drug Programs National Institute of Standards & Technology National Quality Forum (NQF) NEMSIS Technical Assistance Center Organization for the Advancement of Structure Information Standards Regenstrief Institute Research Innovation and Development for Health SAFE-BioPharma Association Saudi Standards Metrology and Quality SNOMED International Underwriters Laboratories 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Patent Disclosure Process The intellectual property policy of IHE International, Inc. are described in the . These policy include a patent disclosure obligation for IHE member organizations. This page describes the process used by IHE Domain Committees and their secretary to ensure adherence to IHEs patent disclosure policy. Duty to Disclose Known Patents IHEs Principles of Governance include an intellectual property policy that defines a duty to disclose certain known patent or patent application owned, controlled or that can be sublicensed by the Member Organization. This obligation applies to patent or application that involve Necessary Claims, meaning that in developing a system compliant with some document (including Supplements), an implementer would necessarily infringe upon that patent. Committee Participants Represent IHE Member Organizations Every domain committee member serf a a representative of an IHE Member Organization. In applying for membership, these organization have all agreed to abide by the , including specifically the intellectual property policy and the patent disclosure obligation. It is the duty of the domain Secretary to maintain committee roster for that domain and to ensure that all committee member are in fact representative of . Committee Secretary Reminds Committee Participants of Policy The domain committee Secretary is responsible for reminding committee member of the patent disclosure policy in writing (via email) and at face-to-face meeting (using the presentation slide provided below) at key milestone throughout the development process of Technical Framework documents, including: When a call is issued for new Profile Proposals When draft Profile Proposals are being selected for Supplement Development When Supplements are being prepared for publication for Public Comment When Supplements are being prepared for publication for Trial Implementation When Supplements are being advanced to Final Text for incorporation into Technical Framework volume The duty to disclose applies both to Profiles under development and to those already published. In the case of new Profiles, the mandated timing for disclosure is prior to their publication for Public Comment. Committee member are responsible for promptly disclosing patent claim relating to already published Profiles whenever they become aware of such claims. Disclosures and Letters of Assurance In case where an IHE Member Organization asserts a patent claim a being necessarily infringed by implementers of system compliant with an IHE Technical Framework document, it committee representative shall be responsible for formally disclosing any such patent claim. If allegation regarding assertion of claim pertaining to previously undisclosed patent by an IHE Member Organization reach the Secretary of an IHE Domain or the Secretary of the IHE International Board, the Domain Secretary will request that the Member Organization in question make a formal patent claim disclosure by submitting a letter of assurance using the form linked below. The letter of assurance will specify the scope of the asserted claim and associated licensing terms. Refusal to formally disclose a patent claim, while asserting claim of necessary infringement by implementers of system compliant with IHE Technical Framework documents, may be ground for the IHE International Board to expel the offending IHE Member Organization. Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory Terms The Principles of Governance stipulate that disclosed patent must be made available by license to other IHE Member Organizations under reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, including a condition of reciprocity. These provision are described fully in Appendix A, section A.3 of the . Committees Consult Disclosed Patent Information Committee secretary and domain planning and technical committee co-chairs are instructed to regularly consult the posted table of disclosed patent information and to make their committee aware of any disclosed patent that may be relevant to planned development activity in the domain. Related Materials Contact For further information about the IHE patent disclosure process, contact: Chris Carr IHE International Board Secretary/Director of Informatics, RSNA 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) IHE is an initiative by healthcare professional and industry to improve the way computer system in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standard such a DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical need in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care provider to use information more effectively. and improve the interoperability of healthcare information systems. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site IHE in the News The following is a collection of press release by IHE and link to article about IHE in external publications. 23 January 2024 12 September 2022 16 March 2020 HL7 Blog,25 September 2018 Wayne Kubick HIMSS Blog,31 August 2018 John Moehrke Healthcare Informatics,6 June 2018 Healthcare Informatics,14 March 2018 Press Release,7 March 2018 HIMSS,27 February 2018 lifeIMAGE Blog,19 February 2018 Press Release Newswire,7 February 2018 HIMSS Blog,5 February 2018 Celina Roth Press Release,5 February 2018 Health Data Management,1 February 2018 RSNA News,30 January 2018 Press Release,23 January 2018 HIMSS Blog,15 January 2018 Didi Davis Joint Initiative CouncilPress Release,January 2018 HIMSS Blog,1 November 2017 John T Donnelly Zeora Blog,1 November 2017 Jose Costa Teixeira Hinacom,21 October 2017 Tech Target,25 September 2017 PatientSafe News,11 July 2017 HIMSS Blog,26 June 2017 Celina Roth Merge Healthcare Blog,27 March 2017 HIMSS News, 17February 2017 Press Release,06February 2017 Press Release, 15 September 2016 Press Release, 15 June 2016 IICC News,04 August 2015 Official Journal of the European Union,28 July, 2015 Healthcare IT News,23 January 2015 ehealth INSIDER, 10 July 2013 PULSE IT, 08 July 2013 European Hospital, 22 May 2013 European Hospital, 08 May 2013 Healthcare IT News, 19 February 2013 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713 Search the site Privacy Policy About this Privacy Policy This Privacy Policy detail how we process Personally Identifiable Information (PII), including the personal data of individual residing in the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA) when they interact with our services. In principle, IHE: Collects, us and store the minimum amount of personal data that is necessary for one or more legitimate business purpose and to comply with legal obligations. Limits who ha access to the personal data in our possession to only those who need it for legitimate business purposes. Protects personal data through physical and technical security measure tailored to the sensitivity of the personal data we hold. Communicates with our employees, customers, suppliers, business partner and others about how we intend to use personal data in our day-to-day operations. Takes reasonable step to ensure our personal data is accurate and up-to-date. Integrates privacy in the design of our activity and project that involve the use of personal data. If you are based in the EU or the EEA and you are interacting with IHE a a provider of service or goods, or u monitoring your behavior, then the related processing of your personal data is governed by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and it implementing national laws. Types of Information Collected We recognize personal data a any information related to an identified or identifiable individual. Depending on the context of your interaction with IHE, we collect and use different type of personal data from website visitors, member of our organization and others that interact with us. Types of information we collect: Membership information: when applying for an IHE membership you will be asked to complete the appropriate form providing your contact and professional information. Accounts on our website: All member have the possibility to create an online account. Besides the information you provide u when becoming a member, we also process your username, passwords, and we log your activity on the website. Information collected automatically: there is other information that we collect automatically when you visit our site through the use of cooky or similar technologies, such a your IP address, browser type, access times. See our Cookies Policy for more information Why we process your personal data The purpose for which we collect and use your personal data may vary depending on the type of relationship you have with us, such a if you are one of our member or a website visitor. See below how we use your information: We process personal data of applicant for membership for the purpose of verifying their credential to see if they meet the criterion to become member and for the purpose of processing the membership fee. We process personal data of our member when they log into their online account for the purpose of managing their membership and providing them membership related services. We process personal data in the context of marketing activity for the purpose of marketing our service and of communicating with our member and customers. We process personal data of our member and customer to better discern and serve their need and improve our product and services. We process personal data collected through cooky placed by our website to support the operation of our website and to analyze the traffic pattern on our site so a to provide better service to visitor and members. See our Cookies Notice for more information We process personal data to maintain professional day-to-day business operation with our partner and vendors. For archiving purpose according to our internal regulation a a nonprofit membership organization. We process personal data to comply with law and enforcement requests, to enforce applicable agreement and policy for our services, to prevent fraud, and to comply with all applicable laws; including tax and other local regulations. Our policy towards child Our service are not directed to children. Disclosures to Third Parties At times, IHE engages third-party contractors, service providers, and other vendor to help u accomplish our business objectives. There are other circumstance where we are required by law to disclose personal data to third party such a public body or judicial authorities. We engage with our agents, representatives, contractors, service provider or third party (such a RSNA, IHE USA, HIMSS, IHE Europe) for the following services: authorization of credit card transaction (US based), membership management (US based) If the engagement involves the transmission of personal data, we require the service provider to treat that data consistent with this Policy. A contract to protect the personal data is executed before any data is disclosed, if that vendor will process personal data of individual in the EU/EEA on our behalf. IHE may also disclose information in special case when it ha a good-faith belief that such action is necessary to: (a) conform to legal requirement or comply with legal process; (b) protect and defend our right or property; (c) enforce the Website Terms and Conditions of Use; or (d) act to protect the interest of our user or others. Occasionally IHE may be required by law enforcement or judicial authority to provide personally identifiable information to the appropriate governmental authorities. We will disclose such information upon receipt of a court order or subpoena in cooperation with a law enforcement investigation. IHE reserve the right to report to law enforcement agency any activity that we in good faith believe to be unlawful. Your European Privacy Rights If you reside or otherwise find yourself in the European Economic Area (EEA), IHE is committed to process your personal data lawfully and facilitate the exercise of your right granted by the European General Data Protection regulation (GDPR). You can contact u at any time to discus your privacy concerns. Legal basis for data collection and use: We only collect and use personal data when there is a fair and legal basis for it collection and use, for instance, when the collection of personal data is necessary to become member of the Society, to meet our legitimate interest to send marketing material, to comply with legal obligation or when we have your authorization. See below the legal basis for each collection: Membership information: necessity to enter into a contract or for the performance of a contract and legitimate interest Business information: necessity to enter into a contract or for the performance of a contract Information collected automatically: consent Privacy right under the European regulation: Transparency and the right to information: we provide notice to our members, website user and other third party who interact with u of how we use personal data in our day-to-day activity at the time of collecting personal data, or a soon thereafter a possible. We also publish this privacy notice for a greater transparency. Right to access, rectification, restriction of processing, erasure, and data portability: if you are based in the EEA we provide you with access to your own personal data. In addition, we will rectify your personal data when it is incorrect or inaccurate, and we will ensure the right to erasure, portability and to restriction of processing when these right are not incompatible with other legal obligations. Right to object and withdraw consent at any time: for all marketing materials, you can opt-out anytime, and free of charge. The right to object for other processing activity will be balanced to ensure that it is not incompatible with local regulation or our legitimate interests. These request should be submitted a follows: Opt-out of marketing communications: you can opt-out anytime by following the opt-out instruction in our commercial e-mail or contacting us. You will still continue to receive email relevant to course registration or purchase (e.g. registration confirmation or purchase receipts) or necessary to your continued membership in IHE (e.g. due notices). To exercise the rest of your rights: you should send a communication in writing to: Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise 820 Jorie Boulevard #200 Suite 200 Oak Brook, Illinois 60523, USA 630-571-2570 secretary@ihe.net In order to fulfil this request,we may require you provide u information to verify your identity and specify your request. We will attend to your request in a timely manner within 30 day after receiving your request. If for any reason we need to extend this period of time, we will contact you. If you are not satisfied with our response,you have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority of your habitual residence, place of work or place of the alleged infringement. International Transfers of Personal Data If you are located outside the United States and you interact with our website or provide u personal data, then your personal data may be transferred to the United States. We transfer your personal data to the United States whenever you interact with us. The US ha not sought, nor obtained adequacy status from the European Union. The EU-US Privacy Shield framework obtained an adequacy decision. The level of protection of your personal data is not deemed equivalent to the one in the EU, unless the receiving organization is self-certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield or implement other approved transfer mechanisms. As a not-for-profit organization, we are not able to adhere to the EU-US Privacy Shield Principles, nor implement other transfer mechanisms. We transfer your personal data on the basis of the derogation in Article 49 GDPR, particularly: Necessity to enter and for the performance of a contract for registration information to participate to our events; for processing personal data of our member to maintain their relationship with our organization, provide them service including when they log in to their member accounts; and also for processing personal data for online and offline courses. Explicit consent, for newsletter subscriber As for safeguard to your personal data, we directly apply the GDPR provision to your personal data. As a matter of principle, we do not engage in any onward transfer regarding your data, beyond the access that our processor have to your data. We select carefully our processor and we require that provide equivalent safeguard mechanisms. Data Security IHE is committed to the security, confidentiality and integrity principle. We take commercially reasonable precaution to keep all information obtained from our members, conference participants, app user and online visitor secure against unauthorized access and use and we periodically review our security measures. Security measures: We use identification and authentication process to insure that access to PII is limited to IHE employee who require it. Offsite access to sensitive information requires the use of a VPN. When compiling statistics, we anonymize member data and report on aggregate measures. We employ encryption technology to protect data at rest and in transit. You should be aware, however, that perfect security doe not exist on the Internet, and third party may unlawfully intercept or access transmission or private communications. This site contains link to other sites. While IHE strives to link only to site that share our high standard and respect for privacy, IHE is not responsible for the privacy practice employed by other sites. IHE MAKES NO CLAIMS, PROMISES OR GUARANTEES ABOUT THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS OR ADEQUACY OF THE CONTENTS OF ITS SITE, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS AND OMISSIONS IN THE CONTENTS OF THIS SITE. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND FREEDOM FROM COMPUTER VIRUS, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE CONTENTS OF THIS WEBSITE OR ITS HYPERLINKS TO OTHER INTERNET RESOURCES. REFERENCE IN THIS WEBSITE TO ANY SPECIFIC COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS, PROCESSES OR SERVICES, OR THE USE OF ANY TRADE, FIRM OR CORPORATION NAME IS FOR THE INFORMATION AND CONVENIENCE OF THE PUBLIC AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE ENDORSEMENT OR RECOMMENDATION BY IHE. Retention Periods IHE applies the storage limitation principle in order to retain personal data in our record only for the length of time required to fulfill the purpose for which the data wa collected. According to our retention policy: We only keep personal data in our record a long a they are necessary for the purpose they have been processed. The retention period depends on the context in which we process data, for instance: 3 years: complaint involving active member Permanent: membership application. Only this information is stored permanently for archiving purpose according to our internal regulations. Changes to this Policy We reserve the right to modify this Privacy Policy at any time. We will duly inform you of any changes. IHE may occasionally update this privacy statement and other statement referenced by it a new service and program are introduced. These change will be notified to you via an email communication and/or by placing a prominent notice on the Site. The time stamp you see on the policy will indicate the last date it wa revised. 2024 IHE International | Email: | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713