MyData Global aim to empower individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. The human-centric paradigm strives for a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society, where the sharing of personal data is based on trust and a balanced and fair relationship between individual and organisations. MyData Global only offer opinion and advice on issue defined by our purpose and declaration. The MyData Declaration unites entrepreneurs, activists, academics, listed corporations, public agencies, and developer in one common goal: to empower individual with their personal data. Together, we can restore trust in data-based business and establish a balanced and fair relationship between individual and organisations. Goal is to empower individual to use their personal data to their own ends, and to securely share them under their own terms. We will apply and practice this human-centric approach to our own services, and we will build tool and share knowledge to help others do the same. MyData Search this website We help people and organisation to benefit from personal data in a human-centric way. To create a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society for all. or learn more below 1649 signatory and counting April 24, 2024 April 19, 2024 April 10, 2024 December 19, 2023 December 19, 2023 March 16, 2022 May82024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event feature collaborative discussion on the value of MyData intermediaries, tool to realize value for patient (digital wallet, virtual assistant, AI tools, etc.) and case presentation from Sverre Sundsdal of Livv.health and Elfi Goesaert of WeAre. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role [] The future belongs to company that provide human-centric solution to privacy and control of data The human-centric approach to data is aimed at a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society. In such a society, people get value from their data and set the agenda on how it is used. And for organisations, the ethical use of data is always the most attractive option. Who we are MyData Global is an award-winning, international non-profit. We have over 100 organisation member and close to 400 individual member from over 40 country on six continents. We help organisation build human-centric solution and services, and we collaborate with local, national, and international stakeholder to advance ethical use of personal data. We facilitate the MyData community of thousand of expert who meet regularly at our flagship event, the international MyData Conference, which ha taken place annually since 2016. Our mission MyData Globals purpose is to empower individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. We bring together professional and organisation from business, legal, technology and society perspective to accelerate transformation for ethical and human-centric data sharing and use.Our mission and value are described in the MyData Declaration. Join MyData and make the use of human-centric data a reality! The MyData Declaration The MyData Declaration unites entrepreneurs, activists, academics, listed corporations, public agencies, and developer in one common goal: to empower individual with their personal data. Together, we can restore trust in data-based business and establish a balanced and fair relationship between individual and organisations. We are a global community of expert who care about personal data. Add your voice to ours. Lets talk on Slack Slack is the main communication forum for the MyData community, consisting of thousand of personal data expert and enthusiast from around the world. Join now to be part of the conversation. Join a sub-group The MyData community is active locally through dozen of local hubs. Our thought leadership is spearheaded by international thematic group driving innovation in the personal data domain. Become a member Join MyData Global either a an individual or an organisation, and gain access to more resource and service to help you succeed in realising a human-centric approach to personal data. Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website We help people and organisation to benefit from personal data in a human-centric way. To create a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society for all. or learn more below 1649 signatory and counting April 24, 2024 April 19, 2024 April 10, 2024 December 19, 2023 December 19, 2023 March 16, 2022 May82024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event feature collaborative discussion on the value of MyData intermediaries, tool to realize value for patient (digital wallet, virtual assistant, AI tools, etc.) and case presentation from Sverre Sundsdal of Livv.health and Elfi Goesaert of WeAre. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role [] The future belongs to company that provide human-centric solution to privacy and control of data The human-centric approach to data is aimed at a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society. In such a society, people get value from their data and set the agenda on how it is used. And for organisations, the ethical use of data is always the most attractive option. Who we are MyData Global is an award-winning, international non-profit. We have over 100 organisation member and close to 400 individual member from over 40 country on six continents. We help organisation build human-centric solution and services, and we collaborate with local, national, and international stakeholder to advance ethical use of personal data. We facilitate the MyData community of thousand of expert who meet regularly at our flagship event, the international MyData Conference, which ha taken place annually since 2016. Our mission MyData Globals purpose is to empower individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. We bring together professional and organisation from business, legal, technology and society perspective to accelerate transformation for ethical and human-centric data sharing and use.Our mission and value are described in the MyData Declaration. Join MyData and make the use of human-centric data a reality! The MyData Declaration The MyData Declaration unites entrepreneurs, activists, academics, listed corporations, public agencies, and developer in one common goal: to empower individual with their personal data. Together, we can restore trust in data-based business and establish a balanced and fair relationship between individual and organisations. We are a global community of expert who care about personal data. Add your voice to ours. Lets talk on Slack Slack is the main communication forum for the MyData community, consisting of thousand of personal data expert and enthusiast from around the world. Join now to be part of the conversation. Join a sub-group The MyData community is active locally through dozen of local hubs. Our thought leadership is spearheaded by international thematic group driving innovation in the personal data domain. Become a member Join MyData Global either a an individual or an organisation, and gain access to more resource and service to help you succeed in realising a human-centric approach to personal data. Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website We help people and organisation to benefit from personal data in a human-centric way. To create a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society for all. or learn more below 1649 signatory and counting April 24, 2024 April 19, 2024 April 10, 2024 December 19, 2023 December 19, 2023 March 16, 2022 May82024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event feature collaborative discussion on the value of MyData intermediaries, tool to realize value for patient (digital wallet, virtual assistant, AI tools, etc.) and case presentation from Sverre Sundsdal of Livv.health and Elfi Goesaert of WeAre. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role [] The future belongs to company that provide human-centric solution to privacy and control of data The human-centric approach to data is aimed at a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society. In such a society, people get value from their data and set the agenda on how it is used. And for organisations, the ethical use of data is always the most attractive option. Who we are MyData Global is an award-winning, international non-profit. We have over 100 organisation member and close to 400 individual member from over 40 country on six continents. We help organisation build human-centric solution and services, and we collaborate with local, national, and international stakeholder to advance ethical use of personal data. We facilitate the MyData community of thousand of expert who meet regularly at our flagship event, the international MyData Conference, which ha taken place annually since 2016. Our mission MyData Globals purpose is to empower individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. We bring together professional and organisation from business, legal, technology and society perspective to accelerate transformation for ethical and human-centric data sharing and use.Our mission and value are described in the MyData Declaration. Join MyData and make the use of human-centric data a reality! The MyData Declaration The MyData Declaration unites entrepreneurs, activists, academics, listed corporations, public agencies, and developer in one common goal: to empower individual with their personal data. Together, we can restore trust in data-based business and establish a balanced and fair relationship between individual and organisations. We are a global community of expert who care about personal data. Add your voice to ours. Lets talk on Slack Slack is the main communication forum for the MyData community, consisting of thousand of personal data expert and enthusiast from around the world. Join now to be part of the conversation. Join a sub-group The MyData community is active locally through dozen of local hubs. Our thought leadership is spearheaded by international thematic group driving innovation in the personal data domain. Become a member Join MyData Global either a an individual or an organisation, and gain access to more resource and service to help you succeed in realising a human-centric approach to personal data. Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website Publication type Podcast Recording Toolkit White paper December 19, 2023 This think piece, titled In this together: combining individual and collective strategy to confront data power result from discussion between four advocacy organisations, Aapti Institute, Connected by Data, Datasphere initiative and MyData Global, working to improve how data is governed. In our work, we have found that common ambiguity in how individuals, groups, rights, protections, [] December 19, 2023 The past decade ha witnessed a remarkable surge in the influence and capability of online platforms, matched by rapid advance in the use of online consumer data to track and target individual for digital marketing. These parallel trend are poised to usher in a fundamental change in how commercial ecosystem are managed online, by consolidating [] March 16, 2022 Understanding MyData Operators focus on practical aspect of technology and governance to make the operation of infrastructure for personal data easier and more human-centric, with the goal of establishing full interoperability between operators. The paper is a foundation for a roadmap towards a human-centric personal data infrastructure. In a collaborative effort of 34 expert and [] April 22, 2021 The State of MyData publication wa inspired by the discussion at the MyData Online 2020 Conference, the rigorous work of MyData Globals local hub and thematic group a well a the community at large. It will help you understand the landscape of MyData and how to leverage it in various contexts, encouraging further work in [] February 9, 2021 The MyData Dictionaryis an articulation of the key data field an individual would wish/ expect to see in a data-set/ database that is designed to empower them, and which they control.The MyData Dictionary is looking and built from the perspective of the individual, not from that of organisations. September 25, 2020 This generative design tool aim to help team articulate the value proposition and the description of a concept, solution or use case. It ha been designed to engage partner and stakeholder to frame the design challenge according to the human-centred design perspective set out by MyData, reflect on the key aspect of the service and [] Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website Event category Community meeting Conference F2F event General Meeting Hybrid event Main event Meeting MyData webinar series Online event Webinar Workshop April 26, 2024 May82024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event feature collaborative discussion on the value of MyData intermediaries, tool to realize value for patient (digital wallet, virtual assistant, AI tools, etc.) and case presentation from Sverre Sundsdal of Livv.health and Elfi Goesaert of WeAre. REGISTER HERE This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing [] March 27, 2024 Apr32024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThis event ha more non-European perspective than the previous events, with Jim St. Clair, Berrin Serdar and Elfi Goesart presenting. REGISTER HERE This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role of MyData operator with regard to health data and the European health data space. As an [] March 25, 2024 Mar282024Community meeting | MyData webinar series | Online event | WebinarOn Thursday 28th March, we will be holding the monthly operator community meeting, with a focus on interoperability. This free Zoom event is open to all. Speakers will include: Yan Minagawa of Element.io talking about how the Matrix protocol is used in the public sector in Germany David Alexander of Mydex CIC talking about their [] February 26, 2024 Mar272024General Meeting | Main event | MeetingThe Spring General Meeting 2024 will take place online on 27 March 2024 at 13.00 UTC+0. The general meeting is open to all, while only MyData Global membership are entitled to vote during the meeting. Time:27 March 2024, at 13.00 UTC+0. See yourlocal timehere Add toyour calendar here Online meeting:The general meeting are held online [] February 23, 2024 Mar62024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event in the monthly series on patient-centric health data operator & solution is on March 6, 2024. This event ha more non-European perspective than the previous events. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim to showcase and describe MyData operators' role with regard to health data and the European [] February 16, 2024 Mar122024Mar142024Conference | Main eventsJoin the world's leading event on data spaces! The Data Spaces Symposium is set to reconvene at Darmstadtium, Frankfurt Region this year. Organized by the Data Spaces Support Centre (DSSC) and the Data Spaces Business Alliance (DSBA), this symposium is a pivotal gathering for those at the forefront of data space innovation and strategy. It [] Interim page omitted Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website Member Login Member Login MyData Global members, use your username or email address to login to the member portal. Not a member? . Username: Password: Remember Me Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website We help people and organisation to benefit from personal data in a human-centric way. To create a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society for all. or learn more below 1649 signatory and counting April 24, 2024 April 19, 2024 April 10, 2024 December 19, 2023 December 19, 2023 March 16, 2022 May82024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event feature collaborative discussion on the value of MyData intermediaries, tool to realize value for patient (digital wallet, virtual assistant, AI tools, etc.) and case presentation from Sverre Sundsdal of Livv.health and Elfi Goesaert of WeAre. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role [] The future belongs to company that provide human-centric solution to privacy and control of data The human-centric approach to data is aimed at a fair, sustainable, and prosperous digital society. In such a society, people get value from their data and set the agenda on how it is used. And for organisations, the ethical use of data is always the most attractive option. Who we are MyData Global is an award-winning, international non-profit. We have over 100 organisation member and close to 400 individual member from over 40 country on six continents. We help organisation build human-centric solution and services, and we collaborate with local, national, and international stakeholder to advance ethical use of personal data. We facilitate the MyData community of thousand of expert who meet regularly at our flagship event, the international MyData Conference, which ha taken place annually since 2016. Our mission MyData Globals purpose is to empower individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. We bring together professional and organisation from business, legal, technology and society perspective to accelerate transformation for ethical and human-centric data sharing and use.Our mission and value are described in the MyData Declaration. Join MyData and make the use of human-centric data a reality! The MyData Declaration The MyData Declaration unites entrepreneurs, activists, academics, listed corporations, public agencies, and developer in one common goal: to empower individual with their personal data. Together, we can restore trust in data-based business and establish a balanced and fair relationship between individual and organisations. We are a global community of expert who care about personal data. Add your voice to ours. Lets talk on Slack Slack is the main communication forum for the MyData community, consisting of thousand of personal data expert and enthusiast from around the world. Join now to be part of the conversation. Join a sub-group The MyData community is active locally through dozen of local hubs. Our thought leadership is spearheaded by international thematic group driving innovation in the personal data domain. Become a member Join MyData Global either a an individual or an organisation, and gain access to more resource and service to help you succeed in realising a human-centric approach to personal data. Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website Declaration 1649 organisation and individual have committed to the MyData principle for ethical personal data management. We believe it is time to publicly assert the value that drive us, and call on those who share these value to act upon them. Join u in reversing the paradigm of personal data. Join u in creating the MyData movement. Sign Sign the Declaration of MyData Principles Country (Afghanistan) Aland Islands Shqipria (Albania) (Algeria) Amerika Smoa (American Samoa) Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Hayastn (Armenia) Aruba Australia sterreich (Austria) Azrbaycan (Azerbaijan) Bahamas (Bahrain) (Bangladesh) Barbados (Belarus) Belgique (Belgium) Belize Bnin Bermuda (Bhutan) Bolivia (Bosnia and Herzegovina) Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory (Brunei) (Bulgaria) Burkina Faso (Burundi) (Cambodia) Cameroon Canada Cabo Verde (Cape) Verde Cayman Islands Rpublique Centrafricaine (Central African Republic) Tchad (Chad) Chile () (China) Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia (Comoros) Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D\'ivoire Hrvatska (Croatia) Cuba (Cyprus) esk republika (Czech Republic) Danmark (Denmark) (Djibouti) Dominica Repblica Dominicana (Dominican Republic) Ecuador (Egypt) El Salvador Guinea Ecuatorial (Equatorial Guinea) (Eritrea) Eesti (Estonia) Ethiopia (Falkland Islands) Froyar (Faroe) Islands Fiji Suomi (Finland) France Guyane (French Guiana) Polynsie franaise (French Polynesia) French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia (Georgia) Deutschland (Germany) Ghana Gibraltar (Greece) Grnland (Greenland) Grenada Guadeloupe Guhn (Guam) Guatemala Guernsey Guine (Guinea) Guin-Bissau (Guinea-Bissau) Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Honduras (Hong Kong) Magyarorszg (Hungary) sland (Iceland) India Indonesia (Iran) (Iraq) ire (Ireland) Isle of Man (Israel) Italia (Italy) Jamaica (Japan) Jersey (Jordan) (Kazakhstan) Kenya Kiribati (Korea, North) (Korea, South) (Kuwait) (Kyrgyzstan) (Laos) Latvija (Latvia) (Lebanon) Lesotho Liberia (Libya) Liechtenstein Lietuva (Lithuania) Luxembourg Macao Makedonija (Macedonia) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Dhivehi Raajje (Maldives) Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Maurice (Mauritius) Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Crna Gora (Montenegro) Montserrat (Morocco) Moambique (Mozambique) Myanmar Namibia Nauru (Nepal) Netherlands Netherlands Antilles Nouvelle-Caldonie (New Caledonia) New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norge (Norway) (Oman) (Pakistan) Palau (Palestine) Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Polska (Poland) Portugal Puerto Rico (Qatar) Reunion Romania (Russian Federation) Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe (Saudi Arabia) Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands (Somalia) South Africa South Georgia and The South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Suisse (Switzerland) Syrian Arab Republic (Taiwan) (Tajikistan) Tanzania (Thailand) Timor-leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Trkiye (Turkey) Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukrana (Ukraine) (United Arab Emirates) United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Ozbekiston (Uzbekistan) Vanuatu Citt del Vaticano (Vatican City) Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara (Yemen) Zambia Zimbabwe I will sign the MyData Declaration and commit to the principles. %%your signature%% Yes, I accept your Sign 1,649 signature Declaration of MyData Principles Version 1.0 Other language Help u translate Contribute We are happy to receive translation of the MyData Declaration in different languages. If you can use git, clone the, add your translation underdeclaration/1.0/languagecode/index.markdown, (for example declaration/1.0/FR/index.markdownfor French) then submit a pull request. More traditionally without git knowledge you can simply, translate it, and send to. As the importance of personal data in society continues to expand, it becomes increasingly urgent to make sure individual are in a position to know and control their personal data, but also to gain personal knowledge from them and to claim their share of their benefits. Today, the balance of power is massively tilted towards organisations, who alone have the power to collect, trade and make decision based on personal data, whereas individual can only hope, if they work hard, to gain some control over what happens with their data. The shift and principle that we lay out in this Declaration aim at restoring balance and moving towards a human-centric vision of personal data. We believe they are the condition for a just, sustainable and prosperous digital society whose foundation are: Trust and confidence, that rest on balanced and fair relationship between people, a well a between people and organisations;Self-determination, that is achieved, not only by legal protection, but also by proactive action to share the power of data with individuals;Maximising the collective benefit of personal data, by fairly sharing them between organisations, individual and society. 1.MYDATA SHIFTS: WHATNEEDSTOCHANGE Our overriding goal is to empower individual to use their personal data to their own ends, and to securely share them under their own terms. We will apply and practice this human-centric approach to our own services, and we will build tool and share knowledge to help others do the same. 1.1. FROM FORMAL TO ACTIONABLE RIGHTS In many countries, individual have enjoyed legal data protection for decades, yet their right have remained mostly formal: little known, hard to enforce, and often obscured by corporate practices. We want true transparency and truly informed consent to become the new normal for when people and organisation interact. We intend access and redress, portability, and the right to be forgotten, to become one-click rights: right that are a simple and efficient to use a today and tomorrow best online services. 1.2. FROM DATA PROTECTION TO DATA EMPOWERMENT Data protection regulation and corporate ethic code are designed to protect people from abuse and misuse of their personal data by organisations. While these will remain necessary, we intend to change common practice towards a situation where individual are both protected and empowered to use the data that organisation hold about them. Examples of such us include simplifying administrative paperwork, processing data from multiple source to improve one self-knowledge, personalised AI assistants, decision-making, and data sharing under the individual own terms. 1.3. FROM CLOSED TO OPEN ECOSYSTEMS Todays data economy creates network effect favoring a few platform able to collect and process the largest mass of personal data. These platform are locking up markets, not just for their competitors, but also for most business who risk losing direct access to their customers. By letting individual control what happens to their data, we intend to create a truly free flow of data freely decided by individuals, free from global choke point and to create balance, fairness, diversity and competition in the digital economy. 2.MYDATAROLES: WHO DOES WHAT Please note: Roles are not Actors an individual or organisation may fulfill one or more role at once. PERSON An individual that manages the use of their own personal data, for their own purposes, and maintains relationship with other individuals, service or organisations. DATA SOURCE A data source collect and process personal data which the other role (including Persons) may wish to access and use. DATA USING SERVICE A data using service can be authorised to fetch and use personal data from one or more data sources. PERSONAL DATA OPERATOR A Personal Data Operator enables individual to securely access, manage and use their personal data, a well a to control the flow of personal data with, and between, data source and data using services. Individuals can be their own operator. In other cases, operator are not using the information itself, but enabling connectivity and secure sharing of data between the other role in the ecosystem. 3. MYDATA PRINCIPLES: WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE In order to produce the shift that are needed for a human-centric approach to personal data, we commit to working towards and advocating the following principles: 3.1HUMAN-CENTRICCONTROLOFPERSONALDATA Individuals should be empowered actor in the management of their personal life both online and offline. They should be provided with the practical mean to understand and effectively control who ha access to data about them and how it is used and shared. We want privacy, data security and data minimisation to become standard practice in the design of applications. We want organisation to enable individual tounderstand privacy policiesand how to activate them. We want individual to beempowered to give, deny or revoke their consentto share data based on a clear understanding of why, how and for how long their data will be used. Ultimately, we want the term and condition for using personal data to become negotiable in a fair way between individual and organisations. 3.2 INDIVIDUALASTHEPOINTOFINTEGRATION The value of personal data grows exponentially with their diversity; however, so doe the threat to privacy. This contradiction can be solved if individual become the hub where, or through whichcross-referencing of personal datahappens. By making it possible for individual to have a 360-degree view of their data and act a their point of integration, we want to enable a new generation of tool and service that provide deep personalisation and create new data-based knowledge, without compromising privacy nor adding to the amount of personal data in circulation. 3.3 INDIVIDUAL EMPOWERMENT In a data-driven society, a in any society, individual should not just be seen a customer or user of pre-defined service and applications. They should be consideredfree and autonomous agents, capable of setting and pursuing their own goals. They should haveagency and initiative. We want individual to be able tosecurely manage their personal datain their own preferred way. We intend to help individual have the tools, skill and assistance to transform their personal data into useful information, knowledge and autonomous decision-making. We believe that these are the precondition for fair and beneficial data-based relationships. 3.4PORTABILITY: ACCESS AND RE-USE The portability of personal data, that allows individual to obtain and reuse their personal data for their own purpose and across different services, is the key to make the shift from data in closed silo to data which become reusable resources. Data portability should not be merely a legal right, but combined with practical means. We want to empower individual toeffectively port their personal data, both by downloading it to their personal devices, and by transmitting it to other services. We intend to help Data Sources make these data available securely and easily, in a structured, commonly-used and machine-readable format. This applies to all personal data regardless of the legal basis (contract, consent, legitimate interest, etc.) of data collection, with possible exception for enriched data. 3.5 TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY Organisations that use a person data should say what they do with them and why, and should do what they say. They should take responsibility for intended, a well a unintended, consequence of holding and using personal data, including, but not limited to, security incidents, and allow individual to call them out on this responsibility. We want to make sure thatprivacy term and policy reflect reality, in way that allow people to make informed choice beforehand and can be verified during and after operations. We want to allow individual tounderstand how and why decisionsbased on their data are made. We want to create easy to use and safe channel for individual tosee and control what happens to their data, to alert them of possible issues, and to challenge algorithm-based decisions. 3.6 INTEROPERABILITY The purpose of interoperability is to decrease friction in the data flow from data source to data using services, while eliminating the possibility of data lock-in. It should be achieved by continuously driving towardscommon business practice and technical standards. In order to maximise the positive effect of open ecosystems, we will continuously work towards interoperability of data, open APIs, protocols, application and infrastructure, so that all personal data areportable and reusable, without losing user control. We will build upon commonly accepted standards, ontologies, library and schemas, or help develop new one if necessary. 4. ACTIONS: WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN NOW Sign the Declaration, a an individual and/or a an organisation. This Declaration is written in the future tense: if your organisation isnt quite there, but is committed to moving into this direction, it should still sign it!Comment on the Declaration. This Declaration will evolve over time, based on your idea and practical experience. There will be an initial review after 6 months.Use the Declarationto further your own project and intentions. Base your trust framework, or your term of services, on it. Use it to lobby and convince clients, partners, stakeholder etc. REFERENCES This Declaration of Principles draw upon many source of inspiration, the most significant one being: The(Open Knowledge Finland)The(Fing)The(Project VRM)The(Open Data Institute)The(PDEC) Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website All Categories News Open call Update April 24, 2024 The NextGen project kicked off at the beginning of 2024. MyData Global teamed up with clinical research centres, universities, professional associations, SMEs and non-profits in this EU Horizon Europe project to develop the next-generation tool for genome-centric multimodal data integration in personalised cardiovascular medicine. The main trend in global demographic and health impact on the [] April 19, 2024 On April 19, MyData Global ha partnered with the Coalition for Online Data Empowerment (CODE) and the Ethical Commerce Alliance (ECA) to send an open letter to the European Commissions Executive Vice-President for A Europe Fit for the Digital Age and Competition, calling for action to enforce the data portability requirement of the EUs Digital [] April 10, 2024 The Alliance brings together Finnish pioneer in data technology and offer it member a unified view to develop solution that cross their organizational boundaries. The Alliance is a collaborative community working to accelerate, build, and utilize data space in Finland. It strives to accelerate the growth and maturity of the Finnish data space initiative that [] March 22, 2024 In the MyData Matters blog series, MyData member introduce innovative solution and practical use case that leverage personal data in line with MyData values. Since the 1980s, personal data ha been managed in essentially the same way. Organisations aggregate customer information in vast data warehouses, with the assumption that more data is always better to [] March 13, 2024 Job title: Legal and policy specialist / ecosystem specialistEmployment type: Fixed contractContract duration: March 2024 through 31 March 2026, with opportunity for renewal.Location: Remote, based in the EU and with a preference for Oslo, or Helsinki.Reports to: Executive Director Role description The ecosystem specialist is responsible for advancing MyDatas work to facilitate the emergence of [] February 22, 2024 , Introducing MyData4Children Zine 2024 Numerous study and real-life event have shown u that emergent technology affect children, for good and bad. However, the dominant narrative is framed with an individualistic focus, putting a single child or a person in a child circle of trust on the spot, leaving many of u feeling defeated, nervous, and [] Interim page omitted Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website Publications Whitepapers, conference recordings, toolkits and other resource published by the MyData network. July 2022: We are transitioning our publication from our , so some resource may be found there. March 16, 2022 April 22, 2021 July 20, 2020 December 19, 2023 December 19, 2023 February 9, 2021 Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal. MyData Search this website Events MyData 2023 conference The most impactful personal data event will take place in Helsinki in 2023 again. Super Early Bird ticket are available now! There are no upcoming events. May82024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThe next event feature collaborative discussion on the value of MyData intermediaries, tool to realize value for patient (digital wallet, virtual assistant, AI tools, etc.) and case presentation from Sverre Sundsdal of Livv.health and Elfi Goesaert of WeAre. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role [] Apr32024Meeting | Online event | WebinarThis event ha more non-European perspective than the previous events, with Jim St. Clair, Berrin Serdar and Elfi Goesart presenting. This series of monthly meeting and a parallel writing process aim at showcasing and describing the role of MyData operator with regard to health data and the European health data space. As an end-product, we [] Mar282024Community meeting | MyData webinar series | Online event | WebinarOn Thursday 28th March, we will be holding the monthly operator community meeting, with a focus on interoperability. This free Zoom event is open to all. Speakers will include: There will be a Q&A and discussion with the speaker afterwards. We have sent invite to our operator mailing list If you have any question [] Mar272024General Meeting | Main event | MeetingThe Spring General Meeting 2024 will take place online on 27 March 2024 at 13.00 UTC+0. The general meeting is open to all, while only MyData Global membership are entitled to vote during the meeting. Time:27 March 2024, at 13.00 UTC+0. Online meeting:The general meeting are held online first in Zoom. No registration:No prior registration [] Empowering individual by improving their right to self-determination regarding their personal data. Copyright 20182024 This site us only strictly necessary cooky to remember your choice and to allow member to log in to the member portal.