We help health and care professional deliver the best possible care by providing critical IT service that are safe, fast and reliable. We are the statutory custodian for health and care data for England, serving stakeholder across the UK. We enable the health and social care system to make best use of it data to improve healthcare outcomes, efficiency of service and the impact of research, while safeguarding the privacy of the people whose data we hold. Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Data and technology that improves life We support NHS staff at work, help people get the best care, and use the nation's health data to drive research and transform services. Keeping patient data safe We collect data from GP practice to help support care and research. Find out about our new way of collecting this data, and what your choice are. 3 billion firewall transaction a day We actively monitor and protect device across the NHS and work directly with local team in response to cyber threat 99.97% availability We provide service the NHS can rely on, with near-perfect average availability across over 100 live service 1.6 billion transaction per month NHS Spine connects more than 20,000 health and care organisations, allowing information to be shared securely 31 million registration The NHS App provides a simple and secure way for people to access a range of NHS service Our service Improving the NHSs most fundamental process A new service is making registering with a GP easier for patient and practices. Latest blog Data and information How we look after your information Collecting data on health and care is an important part of our role in the health service. We collect and store some information from people's health and care record so that it can be used to run the health service, manage epidemics, plan for the future and research health conditions, disease and treatments. We always make sure data we collect is handled securely and in line with the law. We don't hold your medical records. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Data and technology that improves life We support NHS staff at work, help people get the best care, and use the nation's health data to drive research and transform services. Keeping patient data safe We collect data from GP practice to help support care and research. Find out about our new way of collecting this data, and what your choice are. 3 billion firewall transaction a day We actively monitor and protect device across the NHS and work directly with local team in response to cyber threat 99.97% availability We provide service the NHS can rely on, with near-perfect average availability across over 100 live service 1.6 billion transaction per month NHS Spine connects more than 20,000 health and care organisations, allowing information to be shared securely 31 million registration The NHS App provides a simple and secure way for people to access a range of NHS service Our service Improving the NHSs most fundamental process A new service is making registering with a GP easier for patient and practices. Latest blog Data and information How we look after your information Collecting data on health and care is an important part of our role in the health service. We collect and store some information from people's health and care record so that it can be used to run the health service, manage epidemics, plan for the future and research health conditions, disease and treatments. We always make sure data we collect is handled securely and in line with the law. We don't hold your medical records. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Services Services We help health and care professional deliver the best possible care by providing critical IT service that are safe, fast and reliable. Find service relevant to you Our new service catalogue make it easier to find service relevant to you. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Data Data We are the statutory custodian for health and care data for England, serving stakeholder across the UK. We enable the health and social care system to make best use of it data to improve healthcare outcomes, efficiency of service and the impact of research, while safeguarding the privacy of the people whose data we hold. NHS Digital merger with NHS England NHS England will continue to be an effective and secure guardian of public data, when it assumes all responsibility previously undertaken by NHS Digital on 1 February. Learn how we will protect and safely use data in the new NHS England. Our data blog Experts talk about how we are using data to drive research and improve NHS and care services. Latest publication Freedom of information The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000 give you the right to obtain information held by public authority unless there are good reason to keep it confidential. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Cyber and data security Cyber and data security We protect our NHS and care organisation from cyber attack and we monitor for new threat 24 hour a day. Our team support organisation across the NHS with advice,assessments, and training. Latest cyber alert Cyber security service Cyber security awareness material Keep I.T. Confidential campaign material are available to help staff understand security threat and the step we can take to protect data. Guidance and resource There are lot of cyber and data security resource available to support your NHS or social care organisation. Join our cyber security network Our cyber associate network (CAN) is a group of professional working in cyber security, ICT, and related profession in health and care. You can share your experience and ask for help from your peers. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Developer Developer and integration hub Learn how to build healthcare software and integrate with our APIs - resource for product owners, delivery leads, architects, developer and more. Getting started with our APIs A step-by-step introduction to what our APIs can do and how your team can get connected. API and integration catalogue An A to Z list of our APIs and other integrations. Documentation, guide and tutorial Learn about APIs and the technology we use, and how to make the most of our developer resources. Help and support building healthcare software Get help at any point in your project, to make sure your integration with our APIs go smoothly. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search News Improving the NHSs most fundamental process A new service is making registering with a GP easier for patient and practices. Latest news Latest blog Latest feature Still looking for something? If you haven't found what you need, find out how to get in touch. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search About u About u Our team design, develop and operate national IT and data service that support clinician at work, help patient get the best care, and use data to improve treatment. Organisation information NHS Digital merged with Health Education England and NHS England on 1 February 2023. Read more about the merger and explore our archived organisation information. 44 million confirmed account NHS login allows user to access their personal health and care information 1 billion prescription In 2022, 1 billion prescription were dispensed using the Electronic Prescription Service, making prescribing safer, easier and faster 58 clinical trial supported NHS DigiTrials support clinical trial that are developing new treatment to improve health and care 1.6 million device enrolled We actively monitor and detect nefarious activity across the NHS network by enrolling our device onto Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Meet some of our people Job Listings Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Search result Search Search Filter by: DOCUMENT TYPE PUBLICATION YEAR PUBLICATION STATUS TOPIC INFORMATION TYPE GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE GEOGRAPHICAL GRANULARITY Search result 18,412 result sorted by relevance. Sort by: Date Relevance Published Work 19 May 2022 The IAPT v2.0 document below are for reference purpose only. Published Work 25 Apr 2024 Information for ICBs to enable the procurement of online consultation, messaging and appointment booking solutions. Published Work 25 Apr 2024 This guide give an update on the Digital Pathways Framework and how practice and PCNs should work with ICBs to ensure they take advantage of available funding to support the procurement of the necessary digital tools. Published Work 25 Apr 2024 This recently updated guide is designed for anyone responsible for procuring and commissioning IT system within health and social care. Published Work 27 Feb 2023 Guidance and support for GP practice and primary care network using the the National Workforce Reporting Service (NWRS). Published Work 25 Mar 2021 Technical guidance for general practice and primary care network using EMIS Web a their clinical system. Published Work 18 Sep 2023 The NHS England Secure Data Environment (SDE) is a secure data and research analysis platform. It is part of an interoperable NHS Research Secure Data Environment network. We have provided an induction process for user to ensure you can work in the environment safely and securely. Published Work 17 Oct 2022 Find out more about a ground-breaking study of the role of air pollution in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in non-smokers Published Work 30 Sep 2023 Published Work 05 Feb 2024 Guidance for submitting data to the National Diabetes Audit (NDA) through the Clinical Audit Platform (CAP). 1 About NHS Digital Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Your data Looking after your data We collect, process, and work with your health data. We protect patient data, keep it secure, and only use it for authorised purposes. Sharing your data save life The data we collect, process and securely share help save life every day. Find out more about how and why we use data to make a difference. The data we collect We are responsible for collecting, processing, and using data from across the NHS and social care. Each part of the NHS that you use hold it own record about you. Control how we use your data We process a lot of data for your direct care and we also use data in a secure and confidential way for research, planning, and managing the NHS more effectively. You can choose for your data not to be used in this way. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Cyber and data security Cyber and data security We protect our NHS and care organisation from cyber attack and we monitor for new threat 24 hour a day. Our team support organisation across the NHS with advice,assessments, and training. Latest cyber alert Cyber security service Cyber security awareness material Keep I.T. Confidential campaign material are available to help staff understand security threat and the step we can take to protect data. Guidance and resource There are lot of cyber and data security resource available to support your NHS or social care organisation. Join our cyber security network Our cyber associate network (CAN) is a group of professional working in cyber security, ICT, and related profession in health and care. You can share your experience and ask for help from your peers. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Spine Spine Spine support the IT infrastructure for health and social care in England, joining together over 44,000 healthcare IT system in 26,000 organisations. Page content Important update We are moving the NHS Spine Platform to the cloud. . Spine allows information to be shared securely through national service such a the , the , the and the . It currently handle over 1.3 billion message a month and at peak time is processing more than 3,200 message a second. NHS Digital develops and maintains Spine. Recent development include enabling the sharing of child protection information via the , and developing way to allow easier access to demographic data through the . Use Spine Most user access Spine through clinical system or through the . New way are being developed to help system supplier design IT system for health and care which can integrate with Spine or access important patient information. Contact the NHS national service desk for more information. Phone: 0300 303 5035 or email:. Spine Futures The Spine Futures programme ha been created to transform Spine. The vision is to provide a secure, adaptable, and sustainable infrastructure for the health and care system in England, enabling data integration between care settings. This will create a platform for national digital service to be built upon to meet current and future need of staff, patients, and the public. To find out more about the programme visit the . Contact detail Our National Service Desk (NSD) can provide support and can escalate issues, where required: Telephone: 0300 303 5035 Email: Further information internal NHS Digital are developing a new, scalable platform to replace the current NHS Spine over the next 2 to 3 years. The Spine of the future will make use of modern technology and open standard to meet the current and future need of patients, staff, and citizens. internal Developers can test health and care application using our Spine test environment. internal Information for developer and health and care IT specialist internal Computer system which access NHS England service through Spine have to meet certain technical standards. The Warrantied Environment Specification (WES) defines the client environment that we support and application requiring a smartcard or other approved authenticator to be aligned with the term and conditions. internal Information for developer - message definition and interaction required to support the rollout of the Child Protection Information Sharing (CP-IS) Spine Mini Service. internal TMS Java implementation contains a set of tool for network operation on Spine. internal This package contains an implementation of a Spine message handler written in C# for the Microsoft .Net 4.0 platform, provided under the Apache 2.0 licence. internal The NHS Digital Spine Mini Service Provider (SMSP) let health and social care provider access important information held on Spine. It aim to reduce the complexity around integration with the Spine. internal The Reasonable Adjustment Flag is a national record which indicates that reasonable adjustment are required for an individual and optionally includes detail of their significant impairment and key adjustment that should be considered. internal All health and social care organisation connecting to the NHS Spine must have a valid NHS Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) certificate in place to ensure encrypted patient data is transmitted securely. First generation (G1) certificate are expiring in 2024. All certificate should be updated to the second generation (G2) certificate by 2nd May 2024 to avoid any loss of service. NHS E will be making change to their internal service week commencing the 6th May where spine and associated service will only be accepting and issuing on the G2 certificates. If you have not made the required changes, you will lose service. Last edited: 20 October 2023 4:14 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search NHS App NHS App The NHS App provides a simple and secure way for people to access a range of NHS service on their smartphone or tablet. Page content Help u to improve Help u to make improvement by giving feedback on the service catalogue. . NHS App information Our case study and blog View our latest blog below, or visit our for a full archive. Related news Last edited: 21 March 2024 9:03 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search NHS 111 online NHS 111 online NHS 111 online help people with an urgent medical need to get assessed and directed to the right care. Page content Help u to improve Help u to make improvement by giving feedback on the service catalogue. . About this service NHS 111 online is an alternative to the NHS 111 phone service. It help people with an urgent medical need to get assessed and directed to the right care, especially if they can't contact their GP, or when their GP is closed. 111 online can be accessed using the or via the NHS Appon asmartphone or tablet.British Sign Language (BSL) speaker can useand text relay user can call 18001 111, 24 hour a day. Who this service is for NHS 111 online is for people in England aged 5 and over who needurgent health care advicebut it not a life-threatening situation. How this service work People can choose what help they need using the option on the NHS 111 online . If someone is worried about a symptom, they will enter their age, sex, postcode and choose the symptom that's bothering them most today. They will be asked a series of question about their health problem and then they will get advice on what to do next. You can read moreorof the user journey. Depending on what the person needs, they might be advised to: call 999 or go to A&E in an emergency go to an see an evening and weekend GP (out-of-hours GP) book a callback from a nurse get urgent specialist support, for dental or mental health problem contact their own GP surgery see a pharmacist for help with a minor illness look after themselfsafely at home The NHS 111 online triage service is for people aged 5 and over. People can get an emergency supply of regularly prescribed medicine for someone of any age on NHS 111 online. Benefits Benefits of NHS 111 online a fast and convenient alternative to the NHS 111 phone service, for people who want to access it digitally a way to signpost people to the right NHS service to use when they need urgent help, so people can be treated in the most appropriate care setting for their need Status, service level and current usage The service is . NHS 111 online wa launched in 2017 and currently ha around 550,000 completed triage per month. It's aservice.This mean it is operational and supported 24 hour a day, 365 day a year. How to access this service NHS 111 online can be accessed in the following ways: go to open or download theNHS Appon your smartphone or tablet and log in or register to use NHS 111 online on the app British Sign Language (BSL) speaker can use text relay user can call 18001 111, 24 hour a day Contact u Enquiry Point of contact Internal NHS enquiry National Service Desk Online portal: Email: Telephone: Other general enquiry about the service Email: Related service Service Relationship NHS 111 online us the same triage algorithm a the NHS 111 phone service, which is called NHS Pathways. Directory of Services (DoS) is used to signpost user to the most appropriate service for their healthcare need. The NHS App provides a simple and secure way for people to access NHS 111 onlineon their smartphone or tablet. Further information Find out more about. . Last edited: 5 March 2024 11:55 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Coronavirus Coronavirus response Our digital and data service have protected people during the pandemic, got patient the right care and helped build the knowledge we need to defeat the virus. If you are a patient looking for information about coronavirus symptoms, treatments, or vaccinations, visit the NHS website. Vaccinating the nation We're providing the data and technology behind one of the world's largest COVID-19 vaccination programmes. Protecting the vulnerable The shielded patient list (SPL) ha helped million of people who are vulnerable to coronavirus get support during the pandemic. Supporting the NHS with technology NHS Digital is providing the technology to help the NHS identify patient eligible for new coronavirus treatments. Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Improving the NHSs most fundamental process Feature Improving the NHSs most fundamental process A new service is making registering with a GP easier for patient and for practices. A quarter of GP practice in England are already on board. For Adelina Pashova, the benefit of the were summed up in a very quick conversation. There wa a mum sitting in the waiting room. She had just given birth, say Pashova, digital and transformation lead at the Harrow East Primary Care Network. When I told her about the new digital application form, she went straight on her phone and she had completed her child registration in 3 to 5 minutes. Thats it. There were more than 6.8 million GP registration application by patient last year. While seemingly routine, Pashova says, the Register with a GP surgery service simplification and systematisation of this most fundamental of NHS process the gateway into NHS care is a major time-saver for provider like hers and a boon for patients. They can register at any time, day or night, without having to fit in with practice opening times. They no longer need to be physically present at the surgery, which is especially helpful for those who may have mobility issues, live further away from the practice, or have busy schedules. It is accessible. Its easier for people without English a a first language a it can be used with online translation tool and there are standardised paper form for people who need those. Its just better, she says. More than 650,000 patient submission About 20,000 new registration are submitted each week Growing fast Register with a GP surgery wa launched in August 2022. The central offering is a simple and standardised online registration form that is fully integrated with patient-facing digital service like the NHS App, NHS login and NHS Find a GP. More than 1,900 GP practice are now live and the service is processing about 20,000 patient submission a week. William Leachman, an enrolment lead with the service, say integration with NHS digital service is a key part it appeal. A patient registration doesnt really start with completing a form. The patient ha to find the GP in the first place. Were connected with the NHS Find a GP service. So, when they put their post code into Find a GP, link will come up showing relevant practice and, for those that have signed up to Register with a GP surgery, patient can just click through and start registering, according to Leachman. 93% patient satisfaction rating across all age group Integration with the NHS App add approximately 33 million recorded app user with swift access and NHS login user have information such a their NHS number automatically available from their accounts. Leachman say many 16 to 35 year old expect a digitised service and adopt it immediately, but that the service's 93% patient satisfaction rating across all age group show a strong general appeal. For the minority of patient for whom a digital service isnt appropriate, Register with a GP surgery offer a standardised and accessible paper form. We spend le time on task such a photocopying, scanning paper registration form and manually uploading them onto clinical systems. Adelina Pashova, Digital and Transformation Lead, Harrow East Primary Care Network Less admin From practice point of view, the service not only help their patient but save lot of time. Register with a GP surgery is matching patient to their NHS number with a 90% match rate and enrolled practice are experiencing about 3-times fewer exception requiring resubmission to Primary Care Support England (PCSE), the national body processing new patient registrations. This reduction in practice staff detective work save a lot of time that can be used for other things. Pashova says, the efficiency are obvious in the back office: We spend le time on task such a photocopying, scanning paper registration form and manually uploading them onto clinical systems. Its saved a huge amount of admin time and ha made the process faster and, of course, it reduces the time that patient need to wait for the surgery to process their registration application. AdelinaPashova in Honeypot Medical Centre, Greater London Nicola Frisby, a digital service manager with NHS South Central and West Commissioning Support Unit with long experience of working with registration in primary care, say that, while many registration are straightforward, they can take a lot of time when problem arise. Sometimes necessary information is not filled in, is inaccurate or illegible, she says: Its not unusual to not be able to read the email or the phone number and, if you have problem with contacting people, it really doe take a lot of time getting the information you need. The new system automatic catchment area check take out more admin for practice who need to check patient's locations. The service is still working to achieve the full integration with GP clinical system that would allow a direct flow of data from the digital form into GPs records. Currently, a standardised PDF is generated and sent by email to the practice, allowing staff to easily paste information into their system. There are also paid-for 3rd party service that Supporting ICBs Gary McFegan, Digital First Project Manager at North Central Integrated Care Board (ICB), say full integration would receive a roar of approval from the user base, but he say the existing system is already an obvious step forward. We previously ran an 18-month digital registration pilot with 45 practice in North Central London using a different solution and were thrilled with the 22,000 new digital registration we achieved. All of the practice involved have now transitioned to the Register with a GP surgery service because it matched or exceeded their experience with our previous solution. Even before we decided a an integrated care board to implement the national service, some of our practice had signed up independently, a they viewed the national tool to be a better option for them. When you have something that is a patient-friendly digital registration option and can also reduce practice admin, it going to be a winner. It just let our practice staff do other thing for patients. Gary McFegan, Digital First Project Manager, North Central Integrated Care Board There had been initial scepticism from some practice but their doubt tended to reduce with use. Some questioned the time saved by registering the patient digitally compared to the traditional method. Some preferred a face-to-face process with ID checking due to concern about identity. The national service use of NHS login ha helped address the ID issue and the time saved is clear although it rapidly get absorbed. It just let our practice staff do other thing for patients, McFegan says. No practice left behind A dedicated implementation team is working with ICBs, primary care network (PCNs) and individual practice to switch on Register with a GP surgery access in a matter of minutes, in many cases. Support is tailored to the local context. For example, when working with an ICB with many practice within it area with differing needs, the central team might take part in an initial call with practice to explain the service and take questions. Support on communication is provided, with and web-based information provided centrally, and there practical support for surgery that are struggling to get online. A website banner available to GP practice to . If an ICB is wondering about bringing this to their area, we can now tell them it's already in their area, say Nick Hopkinson, associate director of strategy and engagement on the project. Were live in all 42 ICBs across the country and in some area about 75% of practice are already signed up. We have a that allows you to look up your own area and see which practice near you have already signed up. So, colleague can find out who you can talk to locally about this. Recent improvement have been made to make it even easier for ICBs to adopt the service across their area. All that is needed is 3 piece of information practice name, ODS code and a shared inbox email address to enable bulk enrolment with the support of the NHS England onboarding support team. If you work for an ICB, PCN or a GP practice and are interested in Register with a GP surgery, you can find , including a range of templatesor . You can also register for a to hear the latest update on the service. Related subject Dr Shanker Vijay, GP and Digital First Lead for London, explains why he is championing the national Register with a GP surgery service and talk about improvement to the service. Kerrie Hughes, Lead Service Designer for the new Register with a GP surgery service, say registration is more than just paperwork it about giving more people access to healthcare and helping GP practice to provide great care. Share this page Last edited: 22 April 2024 2:02 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search H3 H4 Headings +Emphasis Box Blog Putting people and partnership at the centre of clinical research In March 2024, the Westminster Health Forum policy conference on "Next step for clinical research in the UK" brought together stakeholder from across the research industry. Heather Pinches share her insight from the event. Author: , Head of Clinical Trials Service Date: 28 March 2024 I wa delighted to be invited to represent NHS DigiTrials at the Westminster Health Forum policy conference. The event wa chaired by The Rt Hon Baroness Neville-Jones DCMG, setting the stage for discussion on priority for diversity, trust, transparency and public involvement in clinical trials. DigiTrials I took part in the second panel discussion of the day, Priorities for improving data management and utilising innovation to improve clinical research outcomes. DigiTrials Congratulations to the NHS DigiTrials team and colleague from Accenture who were recently awarded the HSJ Partnership Award for the Data Integration Project of the Year.The team wa recognised for their passion and impressive impact on clinical trials, the technical performance of the system and the user centred design approach. More information . I took part in the second panel discussion of the day, Priorities for improving data management and utilising innovation to improve clinical research outcomes. During this session we covered the digitalisation of clinical trial and platform to improve accessibility, wearable technology and remote monitoring, and increasing collaboration between patients, research funders, the NHS and research industry. It wa an inspirational event and here are my 3 main takeaways. 1. Stronger partnership for better research outcome While we all acknowledge the significance of more collaborative working to achieve better research outcomes, it requires effort and need to be anchored in the practicality of service delivery. However, what struck me during this discussion wa the opportunity for NHS DigiTrials, during our current pilot phases, to activate 1 or 2 key partnership to explore and leverage our collective strength for greater impact. Consider, for example, a recruitment of participant for a specific clinical trial, perhaps funded by a medical research charity. NHS DigiTrials would typically work directly with the Clinical Trial Unit, which mean we may be inadvertently overlooking the valuable insight and expertise a medical research charity can offer too. This may include direct engagement with expert patient group such a collaborating on how best to engage with patient in this clinical area, which could in turn enhance sign-up rate and ensure recruitment strategy are tailored to relevant patient populations. The importance of patient-centric approach wa eloquently set out by Dr Sagair Hussain, Director of Research from DEBRA UK. This way of working is an approach I will take back to the team a we discus the new tranche of clinical trial scheduled to be onboarded over the next 18 months. 2. Decentralised trial remove barrier and release resource As we continued our discussion around the future of clinical trials, it became clear how important decentralised clinical trial are to improving the diversity of participant and releasing the burden on the NHS. The potential benefit are substantial. NHS DigiTrials already support decentralised trial a we can recruit participant from across England, regardless of their location. One of our pilot trials, ASCEND PLUS, exemplifies this approach. It is a virtual trial that test whether taking a daily tablet that contains semaglutide can help to protect people with type 2 diabetes from suffering heart attacks, stroke and other cardiovascular events. The 20,000 participant conveniently track their progress by completing questionnaire online or via phone, eliminating the need for 20,000 individual to travel to an NHS clinic for monitoring. By making further use of new technology to remotely monitor patients, such a measuring blood pressure and blood sugar level at home, we remove barrier that traditionally deterred individual from participating in trials. Factors like time off work, travel expenses, and associated cost are reduced, which widens participation opportunity and encourages greater participant diversity. 3. People centred approach is a positive step forward As we focus on delivering the , it wa encouraging to see the continued work from the Health Research Advisory (HRA) on , which identifies 9 hallmark of what good look like. I am also looking forward to seeing the published guidance from the HRA on how we can make it easier for people to take part in clinical trials, a this will help shape the NHS DigiTrials service going forward. This build on the work NHS England, HRA and other stakeholder are doing to support the delivery of the government's vision: , specifically at a local level where NHS Englands Research Engagement Network Development programme is developing research engagement network across the 42 ICBs, with community who are often underserved by research, read more about how we are . It wa truly inspiring to share a platform with leader from across the research industry, all united by a common goal: to enhance the speed and diversity of clinical trial in the UK, ultimately leading to improved patient outcomes. It's crucial to be part of these discussion to ensure NHS DigiTrials evolves and aligns with the wider clinical research ecosystem and I look forward to future opportunity for the team. Related subject NHS DigiTrials support clinical trial developing new treatments. Share this page Author Last edited: 26 April 2024 4:00 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Putting people and partnership at the centre of clinical research Blog Putting people and partnership at the centre of clinical research In March 2024, the Westminster Health Forum policy conference on "Next step for clinical research in the UK" brought together stakeholder from across the research industry. Heather Pinches share her insight from the event. Author: , Head of Clinical Trials Service Date: 28 March 2024 I wa delighted to be invited to represent NHS DigiTrials at the Westminster Health Forum policy conference. The event wa chaired by The Rt Hon Baroness Neville-Jones DCMG, setting the stage for discussion on priority for diversity, trust, transparency and public involvement in clinical trials. I took part in the second panel discussion of the day, Priorities for improving data management and utilising innovation to improve clinical research outcomes. During this session we covered the digitalisation of clinical trial and platform to improve accessibility, wearable technology and remote monitoring, and increasing collaboration between patients, research funders, the NHS and research industry. It wa an inspirational event and here are my 3 main takeaways. 1. Stronger partnership for better research outcome While we all acknowledge the significance of more collaborative working to achieve better research outcomes, it requires effort and need to be anchored in the practicality of service delivery. However, what struck me during this discussion wa the opportunity for NHS DigiTrials, during our current pilot phases, to activate 1 or 2 key partnership to explore and leverage our collective strength for greater impact. Consider, for example, a recruitment of participant for a specific clinical trial, perhaps funded by a medical research charity. NHS DigiTrials would typically work directly with the Clinical Trial Unit, which mean we may be inadvertently overlooking the valuable insight and expertise a medical research charity can offer too. This may include direct engagement with expert patient group such a collaborating on how best to engage with patient in this clinical area, which could in turn enhance sign-up rate and ensure recruitment strategy are tailored to relevant patient populations. The importance of patient-centric approach wa eloquently set out by Dr Sagair Hussain, Director of Research from DEBRA UK. This way of working is an approach I will take back to the team a we discus the new tranche of clinical trial scheduled to be onboarded over the next 18 months. 2. Decentralised trial remove barrier and release resource As we continued our discussion around the future of clinical trials, it became clear how important decentralised clinical trial are to improving the diversity of participant and releasing the burden on the NHS. The potential benefit are substantial. NHS DigiTrials already support decentralised trial a we can recruit participant from across England, regardless of their location. One of our pilot trials, ASCEND PLUS, exemplifies this approach. It is a virtual trial that test whether taking a daily tablet that contains semaglutide can help to protect people with type 2 diabetes from suffering heart attacks, stroke and other cardiovascular events. The 20,000 participant conveniently track their progress by completing questionnaire online or via phone, eliminating the need for 20,000 individual to travel to an NHS clinic for monitoring. By making further use of new technology to remotely monitor patients, such a measuring blood pressure and blood sugar level at home, we remove barrier that traditionally deterred individual from participating in trials. Factors like time off work, travel expenses, and associated cost are reduced, which widens participation opportunity and encourages greater participant diversity. 3. People centred approach is a positive step forward As we focus on delivering the , it wa encouraging to see the continued work from the Health Research Advisory (HRA) on , which identifies 9 hallmark of what good look like. I am also looking forward to seeing the published guidance from the HRA on how we can make it easier for people to take part in clinical trials, a this will help shape the NHS DigiTrials service going forward. This build on the work NHS England, HRA and other stakeholder are doing to support the delivery of the government's vision: , specifically at a local level where NHS Englands Research Engagement Network Development programme is developing research engagement network across the 42 ICBs, with community who are often underserved by research, read more about how we are . It wa truly inspiring to share a platform with leader from across the research industry, all united by a common goal: to enhance the speed and diversity of clinical trial in the UK, ultimately leading to improved patient outcomes. It's crucial to be part of these discussion to ensure NHS DigiTrials evolves and aligns with the wider clinical research ecosystem and I look forward to future opportunity for the team. Congratulations to the NHS DigiTrials team and colleague from Accenture who were recently awarded the HSJ Partnership Award for the Data Integration Project of the Year.The team wa recognised for their passion and impressive impact on clinical trials, the technical performance of the system and the user centred design approach. . Related subject NHS DigiTrials support clinical trial developing new treatments. Share this page Author Last edited: 17 April 2024 11:01 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search How were transforming our digital service catalogue Blog How were transforming our digital service catalogue Thasmim Ali describes the change weve made to our digital service catalogue to make it easier for our stakeholder to find out and understand what national digital service are available for NHS staff and organisation to use. Author: , Product Owner Date: 7 March 2024 NHS England provides more than 100 national digital service for the NHS. Theyre listed in the on the NHS England Digital website. However, after speaking with digital leader across the system, our Who Does What programme team identified two important problems. First, our stakeholder were unaware of the different type of digital service available to them in the NHS. We know that local NHS organisation want to know about these central service so they don't end up duplicating effort by creating or buying something similar but theyre not clear whats on offer. Second, our stakeholder didnt understand what our national service do. The way they were being described in the catalogue wasnt working well, leading to a lack of understanding and connection between the service offered nationally and the local healthcare bodies. This meant that stakeholder were le likely to invest in a digital service that they didnt fully understand. Our goal wa to solve these problem by transforming the service catalogue. Our approach We approached this problem by talking directly to user through user research and collaborating with internal stakeholders. This is what were doing: 1. Enhancing the service catalogue Drawing inspiration from the , we upgraded the service catalogue by incorporating tags, filters, and an in-page search function. We did this to provide a more navigable and user-friendly experience. Finding information about the service is now easier. 2. Standardising service page Recognising the importance of clarity and consistency, the team introduced a standardised template for service pages. The template act like a guide, making sure the information meet user needs, and keep a clear and consistent presentation of service throughout the catalogue. We have successfully implemented these enhancement on 24 out of 105 service page so far, and were doing more every month. 3. Collaborating with service-owning team An important part of the service catalogue transformation ha been our collaboration with service-owning teams. We worked closely to update their service page and transition to the new standardised template, using their expertise in the service and understanding of their audience. Though it take time and effort, this process make sure our service description are consistent and make sense to the reader. It's worth noting that, in our ongoing work, the team recognises that the standard template may not be a one-size-fits-all solution. As we collaborate with more services, we understand that flexibility is key. If the content doesn't align with or suit a specific audience, team are encouraged to use the template loosely or adapt it accordingly to better meet their service's unique need and objectives. 4. Discovery research and testing We are conducting several type of user research to gain a full picture of the problem space. We are speaking directly to user in interview to fully understand their goal and what is stopping them from achieving them. We have also been using tool such a survey and heat mapping to observe how user interact with our content and what their user journey look like. To make sure our upgrade are solving a problem or meeting a need, we're doing real user testing. Surveys and user research help u fine-tune the catalogue based on what user want and need. 5. Working with the Digital Partnering team We work closely with the Digital Partnering team, who help NHS digital leader to problem-solve and introduce new centrally built digital services. They also facilitate engagement with regional trust for beta pilots. Acting a a vital link between u and the broader NHS, these relationship manager showcase the service catalogue to the correct audience. The relationship manager also work closely with NHS England product teams, following a shared plan from the . Wider NHS organisation can see whats on offer in this central hub to avoid buying into product that already exist. They also have the opportunity to get support from central NHS England product teams. 6. Meeting web team requirement We collaborate closely with the web team, who oversees the NHS England Digital website where the service catalogue is hosted. When we make change like adding new tag or filters, it can have a broader impact on the site and use up the web team's resources. So, we need to be mindful of the effect of our action on their workload. Our objective is to fulfil their requirement and ensure that our contribution align with their strategic plans. Outcomes so far Measuring progress is an essential aspect of this transformative journey. Our team can now provide a tangible count of the number of service page successfully transformed. The user research conducted by the team continues to help u shape our design approach, based on the feedback and insight gathered from our internal and external audiences. However, the true measure of success lie in the outcome achieved. For our service, that mean reducing the time it take for people to discover and learn about our services, and more importantly, getting our national service adopted (for free) instead of NHS organisation buying their own product. What's next Were committed to improving the service based on user feedback. Right now, we're giving extra attention to continuously improving our service pages. This includes the incorporation of extra filters, such a care setting and status (for example, in development, live or retired) to further refine the user experience. Decision maker in integrated care system want clear information on what's coming up, whats right for their organisations, and how the service are going to develop. Weve got to make sure roadmaps are reliable, on track, and aligned across different services. We're asking user and service team for their idea on how to improve them. In term of new features, we are looking particularly at potential collaboration with the Digital Partnering Hub, which brings together relevant information and data together for the CIO community and programmes. Looking ahead, our goal is to offer reliable and user-friendly digital solution for integrated care board decision makers, service team and user that, ultimately, improve healthcare. Related subject Find national digital service and programme to support health and social care in England. Share this page Author Last edited: 13 March 2024 10:08 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search We had to follow the data, not our user Blog We had to follow the data, not our user Chiara Garattini and Kate Burn explain how working in our Data and Analytics sub-directorate ha challenged the assumption of our user-centred design team. Authors: , Lead User Researcher, NHS England , Lead Service Designer, NHS England Date: 27 February 2024 A big part of early work on project typically involves helping our colleague to focus a bit le on the characteristic of their product and the requirement of their internal processes, and to instead start by involving user to understand their needs. Therefore, it's been interesting to work on project that required our team to get deep into the weed of the process in order to, ultimately, put the focus back on users. Working with NHS data We started working in Data and Analytics (at the time, part of NHS Digital) 3 year ago, at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. NHS data in the response to that national crisis and continues to be central both to the future of our health and care system and the day-to-day delivery of services. We are at the centre of this work: the custodian of health and care data in England. Sounds simple, but it actually encompasses a very wide range of process and type of information, many touch point with many different people. We first needed to understand what service we deliver, who us each of them and what for. The answer from our colleague very often seemed to be that our service are for "everyone", and that isnt specific enough to be useful. When we dug further, the answer had become: "everyone who ha a role in providing or using health data for the benefit of the public and the health and care system". Again, not an identifiable user group with actionable needs. They needed different thing from u depending on their task rather than necessarily on their role and competencies. We asked, "what are the task that people who use data for the benefit of the health and care system do?" and started coming up with various category of people and their expertise. For example, data skills, technology proficiency and clinical knowledge. From there, we were able to get to some large category of users, such a clinical and clerical staff, analyst and data specialists, scientist and researchers, and policy and service planner and decision makers. But even this didnt help a much a we expected. These user group tended to crop up across the service we were seeking to understand. They had very different and discrete need depending on where we encountered them. Similar user were coming from a wide variety of different organisations, from academic research institutions, to service provider and commercial entities, and they needed different thing from u depending on their task rather than necessarily on their role and competencies. It wasnt a simple a clinical and clerical staff needing one set of thing from us, and academic needing something else. Following the data We took a different tack. Could we understand the process by following the thing we were working with? Instead of looking at the journey taken by the people using and interacting with our data, would looking at the data instead help u make sense of our service and users? We started following what we called the life-course trajectory of the data. First, we looked at the birth and development of data. We mapped how it wa created in a particular context; how some of this data wa then submitted to u via different technical mean and forms; how the data wa stored, cleaned, curated, processed, and readied for use; how it wa moved again in this new form into another place where it could be accessed and analysed; and finally, how it wa transformed and published a different artefacts: dashboards, article and visualisations. We mapped what we knew of the kind of people inside and outside our organisation who were involved at each of these stages. Who were they? What were their skills? What were their needs? Major step in the data journey Using the insight gained from this detailed investigation, we were able to establish that we had 4 large service areas: Data provision and ingestion Data transformation and curation Data access provision and dissemination Data-outputs publication A new operating model wa implemented in 2022 with these 4 area at it backbone and our technical colleague responded well to the division. We started making headway in our conversations: "Yes, now I can tell you who our user are for this and for that area of service" is what we started to hear. Returning to our user We are aware that our focus on the data and it journey raised the risk of designing service and making technology decision that would benefit the data, it quality, it speed, and it timeliness over actual benefit to users. In the end, the goal must be to focus on what people need. By following the data and mapping where it flow through our organisation, we were able to establish a common view among senior stakeholder and service owner of what our service are, where they start and end, which product they involve, and who us these service for what. This map became a go-to tool to agree and communicate where work sat. It allowed colleague with different expertise and perspective to come together and coordinate effort to deliver great data service that will increase the potential for data to save lives. Health data is wonderfully complex, and working and designing for it and with it is hard. A lot of thing are fixed or unchangeable and trying to do user-centred design in this area can sometimes be confusing and even overwhelming. But it is important, interesting, and fascinating work and critical to the future of our health and care system. This content wa first presented at the . Share this page Authors Last edited: 27 March 2024 3:21 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Blogs NHS Digital blog Blogs by NHS Digital. . Last edited: 10 October 2022 10:20 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Search result Search Search Filter by: DOCUMENT TYPE PUBLICATION YEAR PUBLICATION STATUS TOPIC INFORMATION TYPE GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE GEOGRAPHICAL GRANULARITY Search result 7,468 result sorted by date. Sort by: Date Relevance Publication 7 May 2024 This is a monthly report on publicly funded community service for people of all age using data from the Community Services Data Set (CSDS) reported in England for February 2024. It ha been developed to help achieve better outcome and provide data that will be used to commission service in a way... Publication 2 May 2024 NHS England collect and publish data about people with dementia at each GP practice in England, to enable NHS GPs and commissioner to make informed choice about how to plan their dementia service around patient needs. Publication 2 May 2024 The weekly file contain information on the number of vaccination for COVID-19 delivered to English resident and all other individual who have been vaccinated in England (including those living outside of England). Publication 2 May 2024 The rapid cancer registration dataset (RCRD) is aimed at supporting near-real time analysis of cancer data, introduced to support the public health response to COVID-19 by NHS England and other agencies. Publication 2 May 2024 The GP Contract Services publication provides data relating to the delivery of primary care service across England, agreed within the GP contract(s) between NHS England and the British Medical Association's (BMA) General Practitioners Committee (GPC). These data are primarily used for payment and management... Data set 2 May 2024 Contains data on Community Services Statistics for February 2024 and a provisional data file for March 2024 (note this is intended a an early view until provider submit a refresh of their data). Publication 30 Apr 2024 Publication updated on 30 April 2024 with data for Quarter 32023-24. Publication 25 Apr 2024 The NHS Outcomes Framework (NHS OF) is a set of indicator developed by the Department of Health and Social Care to monitor the health outcome of adult and child in England. The framework provides an overview of how the NHS is performing. This report provides information about the indicator updated... Publication 25 Apr 2024 A five-year framework for GP contract reform to implement The NHS Long Term Plan published in January 2019 describes significant investment in Primary Care Networks (PCNs) through the Network Contract Directed Enhanced Service (DES). As part of the Network Contract DES, investment is being made to support... Publication 25 Apr 2024 Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy and Surgical Tumour Resections in England, 2013 to 2021 1 About NHS Digital Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Dashboards Data dashboard Dashboards help u visualise our work If you are unable to view any of the dashboard in the page below, we recommend you try a different browser or clear your browser cache. Last edited: 15 February 2024 3:01 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search How we look after your health and care information How we look after your health and care information Understanding the information we hold about you, what it's used for, and your choices. Last edited: 26 May 2021 12:30 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Privacy and cooky Privacy and cooky A description of the personal information NHS Digital may collect about you a part of our normal business. We want you to understand why we hold and process this information, and your choices. Find out how to request a copy of the information we hold about you. Page content Personal information At NHS Digital, we collect personal information for two main reasons: because of our official role a the safe haven for patient data in England a part of our normal business You can read more about . Those page contain important information on your choice about your confidential patient information. This page is about the personal information we may collect about you a part of our normal business. We want you to understand why we hold and process this information, and your choices. We always collect, hold and process information securely and legally. Emails and bulletin We have made the decision to keep sending operational email and bulletin to address already on our list when GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) come into force. This is because the information we send is important and help health and care in England. Lots of our email contain technical update or alert and it may harm the health and care system if we stop sending these. We consider this legitimate interest. Every email you receive willhave an option on it to remove yourself (unsubscribe) from the list. If you get email that you do not want, email u ator call u on 0300 303 5678 and tell u what you want to unsubscribe from, and we will remove you from that list. When you sign up to one of our mailing lists, we do not pas your email address to any third parties. We only subscribe you to the list you have signed up for, and do not use your address to subscribe you to other lists. Email sent from our contact management software In message from our mailing lists, we automatically add a piece of code that request a small image from our web servers. When a reader open the email, the image is downloaded. This allows u to monitor how many of the email we send are opened. We only use it in summary form, for example 2,000 people opened the message. By default, most email software will be configured to not download the image. Cookies on our website Cookies are small text file that are placed on your computer by website that you visit. They are widely used in order to make website work, or work more efficiently, a well a to provide information to the owner of the site. On this site, if you have Javascript enabled, you will be offered a choice to have necessarycookies only, or to accept all cooky that we'd like to place. If you do not have Javascript enabled, you will only receive the necessary cookies. Most web browser also allow some control of cooky through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit. If you do nothing other than read page or download information, and you accept all cookies, we will capture and store some information about your visit. This information will not identify you, it relates to: the internet domain (such as) and anonymised IP address from which you access the website the type of browser (Internet Explorer or Firefox etc) and operating system you use (Windows, Mac OS, UNIX) the date and time of your visit the page you visit the address of the web site from which you linked to u (if applicable) This information is not shared with anyone and we do not merge this information with other data. If you opt to accept cookies, we may also use information about what you do on our site, to help personalise your experience, and show you more of the thing you are interested in. We use this information to make each visit more rewarding and to provide u with information to help improve our service. We do not know (and do not wish to know) the identity of the individual who visit our website. You can view the , a well a managing anypersonalisation you are offered on the site. Cookies and personalisation We publish detail of on our cooky page. You can also control how we personalise the site for you, including switching off personalisation, even if you want to continue receiving other cookies. You can also . This is also available at the bottom any page by clicking 'Cookie consent' Embedded content and managing cooky On some page we embed video such a YouTube, chart such a PowerBI or provide link to popular social medium site such a Twitter and LinkedIn. We always try to minimise the cooky set in this way, and they are included in our cookie declaration. These cooky are called third party cooky and in some case are beyond the control of NHS Digital. Using webchat We only collect information you choose to give u when you use the LivePerson webchat service. Privacy information is provided at the start of the chat. We log your query to help u resolve it, and to improve our service in the future. Other website Our privacy notice only relates to information that we obtain from you. If you visit a website operated by a third party through a link included on this website, your information may be used differently by the operator of the linked website. When you are moving to another site you are advised to read the privacy notice relating to that website. Contacting u by email, phone or post When you email , call 0300 303 5678, or write to us, your enquiry will be answered by our contact centre. We collect the information that you give us, and use it to help resolve your query, to contact you about your query, and to improve our services. We keep this information for 3 year from the date of your enquiry. Asking to see the information we hold about you You have the legal right to request a copy of the information we hold about you, in line with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). You can do this by making a . Last edited: 27 October 2023 3:30 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Terms and condition Terms and condition Use of this website is governed by these term and conditions. Page content 1. About these term 1.1 Please read these term and condition carefully before you start to use this website (being https://digital.nhs.uk/ and all section and pages). You may access and use this website if you agree to be legally bound by these term and condition set out here. If you do not agree to be legally bound by these term and condition please do not access and/or use this website. 1.3 The entire content of this website, and the individual articles, items, medium file and asset published are owned by NHS England, unless otherwise indicated. 1.4 This website is intended for use only by people who live in the United Kingdom. References to the NHS mean the NHS in England unless otherwise stated. Services and arrangement may differ elsewhere in the UK. 1.5 If you have any query in respect of your use of this website please contact u at: or at: NHS England 7 and8 Wellington Place Leeds West Yorkshire LS1 4AP 1.6 We may make change to these term and conditions, the term and condition applicable to any specific sub-site, the privacy and cooky policy and any other policy applicable to your use of this website, at any time. Your continuing use of this website constitutes your acceptance of and agreement to any such changed term and condition and policies. 1.7 To the extent that we are practically able to do so, we may terminate your access to any part of this website at any time without notice if you breach any of these term and conditions. 2. Accessibility and browser 2.1 NHS England aim to make this website and the material provided accessible to a many people a possible. This website is designed to work with the latest version of Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome and Apple Safari, and us standard which should work on the majority of browser in use. We offer no warranty for this website working in any particular browser or configuration. Please note that you may see inconsistency in the presentation of page if you are using an older or deprecated version of a browser. . 3. Information about you and your visit to this website 3.1 NHS England process information about you in accordance with our . By using this website, you consent to such processing and you warrant that all data provided by you is accurate. 4. Freedom of Information 4.1 The data right and responsibility of NHS England, it staff and of patient is governed by the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and the Data Protection Act 1998. For policy and other information see . 5. Registering to use this website 5.1 In order to access certain content, system or interactive feature on this website you may be asked to choose, or be provided with, a password or other log in detail to access part of this website. As a minimum, password you set for use with this website must have a level of complexity which ensures they cannot be easily guessed by hacker or malicious software. They should: be at least twelve character long; not contain your user name, real name, or organisation name; not appear in the list of top 10,000 passwords; not use sequential key character on the keyboard (such a qwerty, asdfg, 12345) 5.2 In line with Government best practice, we recommend using the three random word approach, which us three or more randomly chosen word like saloonbadgertree or coffeetrainfish. These word should be random, and not related personally to you (so not involving a favourite thing, holiday, relative). Passwords must not under any circumstance be shared with anyone. 5.3 You may terminate your account registration using the relevant link in your account pages. This will clear any personal information you have saved. Subscriptions to our email can be terminated using the Unsubscribe link provided in the emails. 6. Prohibited us of this website 6.1 You may use this website only for lawful purposes. You may not use this website: in any way that breach any applicable local, national or international law or regulation; in any way that is unlawful, fraudulent or harmful to other users, or ha any unlawful, fraudulent or harmful purpose or effect; to send, knowingly receive, upload, download, use or re-use any material which doe not comply with these term and conditions; to transmit, or produce the sending of, any unsolicited or unauthorised advertising or promotional material or any other form of similar solicitation (spam); and to knowingly transmit any data, send or upload any material that contains viruses, Trojan horses, worms, spyware or any other harmful program or similar computer code designed to adversely affect the operation of any computer software or hardware. 6.2 You also agree not to access without authority, interfere with, damage or disrupt any part of this website; any equipment or network on which this website is stored; any software used in the provision of this website; or any equipment or network or software owned or used by any third-party. 7. Material on this website 7.1 The material on this website includes information, data, text, images, videos, Information Standards, interactive services, link to product and apps and other work ('NHS England Content'). You acknowledge that all right in copyright, patents, design rights, trade mark and other intellectual property right (whether registered, capable of registration or otherwise) throughout the world, in this website and all NHS England Content are owned by, or licensed to NHS England, unless otherwise indicated. Some NHS England Content includes identifiable third-party content for which we will have sought permission for it inclusion. 7.2 Except for your use of this website in accordance with these term and conditions, you are granted no right in respect of this website or any NHS England Content. 7.3 The Information Standards are published by u and apply to organisation in the health and social care sector. They relate to the processing of information such that data can be shared, compared and understood across the sector, and used for planning, monitoring and good patient care. For further detail please see . The Data Co-ordination Board (DCB) assures the quality of information standards. 8. Your use of NHS England content 8.1 Copyright and database right in the NHS England Content are released free-of-charge under the current version of the , except where specified, either in these term and conditions, elsewhere on this website or in the OGL terms. This licence doe not extend to any other intellectual property rights, including but not limited to patents, design right and trade marks. If there is any conflict between the OGL term and these term and condition these term and condition shall take precedence. 8.2 This mean that you can use NHS England Content, including copying it, adapting it, and using it for any purpose, including commercially, provided you follow these term and condition and the term of the OGL. 8.3 The OGL term do not apply to the following category of NHS England Content, and therefore these must not be used without our or the relevant owner prior consent: any logos, visuals, image rights, trademarks, trade name and design style (except where these are integral to a document or data set) of NHS England, or any predecessor or linked body, a well a of any partner or contributor; the Information Standards. NHS England permit the copying and re-use of Information Standards, in whole or in part, for commercial and non-commercial purpose but, to protect the integrity of the Information Standards, you are not permitted to adapt, amend or decompile the Information Standards for any purpose without our prior consent; software, source code and any technical documentation relating to software or source code except where released on https://developer.nhs.uk/, a public repository on GitHub, or any other platform we may specify from time-to-time; information owned by third party which we are not authorised to licence on to you.This information will be clearly marked. If in doubt, contact u using the detail above; information gained through any service or section on this website (or linked websites) which can only be accessed by logged-in users; and any information which is marked a being under a different licence, or not for release. 8.4 If you do use any NHS England Content you must attribute it with the following statement: Information from NHS England, licenced under the current version of the Open Government Licence. or in case where the NHS England Content is combined, adapted, or otherwise modified in line with these term and conditions: Contains information from NHS England, licenced under the current version of the Open Government Licence. 8.5 By using any NHS England Content you accept and agree to the following terms: you must not alter, adapt, edit or modify any NHS England branding where this is integral to a document or data set; if you do alter, adapt, edit or modify any NHS England Content in accordance with these term and conditions, where possible, you should remove the NHS England branding; you may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by NHS England of your site or any non-NHS England entity, product or content or any view expressed within your site or service; NHS England ha absolute editorial control over all NHS England Content and reserve the right to alter, adapt, edit, modify or restrict the availability of NHS England Content without prior notice; and you should refresh cached content every 24 hour to ensure you have the most up-to-date version. 9. Uploading material to this website 9.1 Whenever you make use of a feature that allows you to upload material to this website, for example when you participate in online discussions, contact other user of this website or submit any apps or products, you must comply with the standard set out in the comment and moderation policy. You warrant that any such contribution doe comply with those standards, and you indemnify u for any breach of that warranty. 9.2 Any material you upload to this website will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary, and NHS England ha the right to use, copy, distribute and disclose to third-parties any such material for any purpose. Furthermore NHS England also ha the right to disclose your identity to any third-party who is claiming that any material posted or uploaded by you to this website constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or their right to privacy. 9.3 NHS England will not be responsible, or liable to any third-party, for the content or accuracy of any material posted by your or any other user of this website. 9.4 NHS England ha the right to remove any material or posting you make on this website if, in our opinion, such material doe not comply with the standard set out in these term and condition and the comment and moderation policy. 9.5 Comments posted should relate to your personal experience or that of someone close to you. You should not name any individual (other than yourself) or include information through which someone else could identify an individual about whom you are writing. If you want to comment on someone el experience, (e.g. a relative or someone you care for) then you may do so if you ensure that you are not named in the posting and you state how the other person is connected to you (e.g. my father). You warrant that all statement of fact in any comment you submit are true, and that any expression of opinion is your honestly held opinion on those facts, or that of the person on whose behalf you are writing. 9.6 If you find any comment offensive or objectionable you may make a complaint to the moderator using the Report link provided at the foot of each published comment. 9.7 We have many measure in place to keep your information safe. But it is important that you also play your part visit the Government's Get Safe Online website for advice on how to do this. 10. Social media, bookmarking, and digital engagement 10.1 NHS England may from time to time provide third party or owned social medium and interactive service on this website or linked to this website, currently this includes and is not limited to: Youtube for sharing video content; Twitter for sharing news and participating in conversation with users; Blogs to share the opinion of NHS Englands staff and other key figures; Discussion Forums for participation in conversation with users; RSS feed for sharing news; Social bookmarking to allow user to share our content more easily on popular social medium platforms. 10.2 NHS England is under no obligation to oversee, monitor or moderate any interactive service we provide from this website, and we expressly exclude our liability for any loss or damage arising from the use of these interactive service by a user in contravention of these term and conditions, whether the service is moderated or not. 10.3 Our RSS feed can be used a part of your website; however, we do require that proper format and attribution are used. The attribution text should read NHS England RSS feeds. We reserve the right from time to time to restrict the distribution of NHS England RSS feed content and do not accept any liability for these feeds. 10.4 Use of our social bookmarking link is subject to these term and conditions, see Linking from this website below. 10.5 Although we do monitor and review discussions, chat, postings, transmissions, bulletin board and the like on this website and it subsections, we are under no obligation to do so and assume no responsibility or liability arising from the content of any such location nor for any error, omission, infringement, defamation, obscenity, or inaccuracy contained in any information within such location on this website. 10.6 The use of any of the interactive feature on this website by a minor is subject to the consent of their parent or guardian, and we advise parent to communicate with their child about their safety online, a moderation is not fool-proof. Minors who are using any interactive service should be made aware of the potential risk to them. Where we do moderate any of the interactive feature on this website, we will normally provide you with a mean of contacting the moderator, should a concern or difficulty arise. 11. Linking to this website 11.1 We do not object to you linking directly to page on this website. We reserve the right to move or change this website URLs at any time. Rather than deep linking we recommend linking to section homepages, which are le likely to move or change. 11.2 However, we dont give permission to suggest that your website is associated, or endorsed by us. 12. Linking from this website 12.1 We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the website we link to and do not necessarily endorse the view expressed within them. We aim to replace broken link to other site but cannot guarantee that these link will always work a we have no control over the availability of other sites. 12.2 Due to the very nature of the internet we cannot guarantee this website or other website we link to will always be available to you. 13. Disclaimer and liability 13.1 This website, all NHS England Content and all material relating to Government information, product and service (or to third-party information, product and services), is provided a is, without any endorsement and without warranty of any kind whether express or implied, including but not limited to the implied warranty of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security and accuracy. This mean that whilst we do try to ensure that all our information is correct, we are not liable for any error or omissions, and cannot be responsible for any impact these have on you. 13.2 If the need arises, we reserve the right to amend, delete, suspend or withdraw all or any part of this website without notice. NHS England will not be liable if for any reason this website or any part are unavailable at any time. 13.3 We do not warrant that the function of this website will be uninterrupted or error free, that defect will be corrected, or that this website or the server that make it available will be free of virus or represent the full functionality, accuracy or reliability of the materials. You should use your own virus protection software. 13.4 NHS England and any approving body are not the owners, manager or supplier of various product which can be accessed from this website. NHS England or the approving body set standard for reviewing the products, but this doe not mean that NHS England or the approving body ha itself reviewed all aspect of each product, or version of the same product. NHS England or the approving body is not responsible or liable for any advice, or any other information, service or product that you obtain using any such products. 13.5 Material on this website is provided for information and educational purpose only and we do not guarantee that information we provide will meet your health or medical requirements. NHS England doe not give medical advice in relation to any individual case or patient, nor doe NHS England provide medical or diagnostic services. For le urgent health needs, contact your GP or local pharmacist in the usual way. If you have an urgent medical need you should call 111. If a life is at risk, call 999. 13.6 In no event will we be liable for any loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising from use or loss of use of, data or profit arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. Nothing in these term and condition will operate to limit or exclude liability for death or personal injury arising from our negligence, nor our liability for fraudulent misrepresentation, nor any other liability which cannot be excluded or limited under applicable law. 14. General 14.1 If any of these term and condition are determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable then the remaining term and condition shall remain in full force and effect. 14.2 The law of England shall apply exclusively to these term and condition and to all matter relating to use of this website. Any cause of action arising under these term and condition or the use of this website shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court of England and Wales. Last edited: 24 October 2023 10:23 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Freedom of Information Freedom of Information The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000 give you the right to obtain information held by public authority unless there are good reason to keep it confidential. Page content Merger with NHS England - 1 February 2023 On 1 February 2023, NHS Digital merged with NHS England. As a result, Freedom of Information (FOI) request will now be processed via the NHS England Customer Contact Centre. Please send Freedom of Information, Environmental Information Regulation and Internal Review request to . Please write 'Freedom of Information' in the subject line. If you have difficulty making a written request, please call the Customer Contact Centre on 0300 311 22 33. Requests which have been sent to the NHS Digital Contact Centre before 1 February will be responded to a wa normal practice at that time. What the FOI Act cover The FOI Act 2000 covers: a general right of access to information held by NHS Digital (and Health and Care Information Centre)subject to certain condition and exemption a duty on u to inform any person who request information whether we hold the information, and to communicate that information to the applicant unless one or more exemption apply You can seek any recorded information that you think NHS Digital may hold. If the information is environmental, we will respond according to the . You do not have to know if the information you want is covered by the EIR or the FOI Act. When you make a request, we will decide which law applies. Our duty to you The FOI Act requires u to: provide information to you about NHS England through a publication scheme provide a guide to this information respond appropriately to request for information Our obligation As a public authority we are obliged under the FOI Act to provide detail of our routinely available information. The Information Commissioner's Office defines how this information should be published in the. If you make a request and are not satisfied with the way in which we deal with it you may ask u to review any decision we make. If you wish u to carry out a review you should write to u a soon a possible and within 2 month of receiving the response. Before you make a request You might not need to make an FOIrequest if we have: previously responded to a FOIrequest already published the information Previous Freedom of Information request Existing published data and information About NHS Digital Publication scheme Make a request If you cannot find the information you require,you can make an FOI request. Email: What to include Provide: your name an email address the information you want Please be a concise a possible about the information you want a this will help to answer your request. Your own personal data If the information you require is your own personal data you will need to make a subject access request under the Data Protection Act2018, and not under the Freedom of Information Act 2000. Subject access request Copies of your medical record If you want to see copy of your medical records, you should ask your GP or the health setting that provided your care or treatment. We do not hold medical record in the same format a a GP or hospital, for example GP notes, X-rays or scans. How to access your health record Freedom of Information compliance statistic Environmental Information Regulation request The Environmental Information Regulations 2004 allow you to request access to environmental information held by public authority such a NHS Digital. The regulation allow access in a similar way to the FOI Act although you can also request information verbally. You should provide the same type of detail a for an FOI request and contact u using the same details. Last edited: 8 February 2023 11:50 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search NHS Digital slavery and human trafficking statement NHS Digital slavery and human trafficking statement NHS Digital doe not tolerate modern slavery in any of it form of slavery and servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking within our activity or our supply chain. We continue to fully support the government's objective to eradicate modern slavery and human trafficking and we acknowledge our role in both combating it and supporting victims. We are committed to ensuring our supply chain and business activity are free from ethical and labour standard abuse. Page content About NHS Digital The Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC), known a NHS Digital, wa set up by the Department of Health and Social Care in April 2013 and is an executive non-departmental public body. Our team design, developand operate the national IT and data service that support clinician at work, help patient get the best care, and use data to improve health and care. Current policy and initiative People Our Human Resources (HR) policy provide process and procedure to ensure that our employee and those employed in our supply chain are treated fairly at all times. These include: confirming the identity of all new employee and their right to legally work in the United Kingdom and appointing staff subject to references, immigration check and identity checks. This ensures that we can be confident, before staff begin employment, that our staff have a legal right to work within the organisation having a set of value and behaviour that staff are expected to comply with, with all candidate expected to demonstrate these attribute a part of the recruitment selection process adopting the national pay, term and condition of service mean that we have the assurance that all staff will be treated fairly and that pay, term and condition will comply with the latest legislation. This includes the assurance that staff received, at least, the National Minimum Wage from 1 April 2022 implementing employment policy and procedure designed to provide guidance and advice to staff and manager and to comply with employment legislation. These are accessible to all staff via our intranet committing to creating and ensuring a non-discriminatory and respectful working environment for our staff, in line with our corporate social responsibility providing a platform for our employee to raise concern about poor working practices, through the implementation of policy covering equality, diversity and inclusion; grievance; respect and dignity at work; and whistleblowing implemented a Safe to Challenge reporting service which provides staff with an additional independent, confidential route to raise concern and seek advice implemented a network of Freedom to Speak Up Guardians with appropriate training, who will act a agent of equity and inclusion within the business. ensuring appropriate mechanism to regularly review and track progress on promoting and supporting diversity and inclusion, both a an employer and service provider. This includes the publication and monitoring of trend in our Workforce data a well a our use of Equality Impact Assessments (EIA) to inform the development of people process and the service we provide requiring all staff to undertake mandatory training in relation to diversity and inclusion NHS Digital Whistleblowing policy Our Whistleblowing policy give a platform for employee to raise concern for further investigation and offer support to individual that have suffered fiscal or professional detriment a a result of whistleblowing. Procurement and our supply chain Over the last year we have continued to take step to identify, prevent and mitigate modern slavery in our procurement and supply chains. We have adopted the Procurement Policy Note 05/19: Tackling Modern Slavery in Government Supply Chains through updated policy, process and training. We have supported the compliance of modern slavery and human right awareness and prevention standard amongst our staff. We have provided access to relevant training for procurement and commercial staff at all levels, including ethic training accredited by the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS); 100% of commercial permanent team member had completed this training at the point of the CIPS Kitemark renewal in November 2021. New member of staff, joining since this date, are required to complete the training by November 2022 to ensure compliance to this standard. This training support staff in understanding how to identify modern slavery and how to tackle it effectively in supply chains, both in existing contract and new procurement activity. As such, we hold CIPS Ethics accreditation. Our standard contract for the supply of goods, service and work contain term regarding modern slavery principle and are reviewed during our due diligence and assurance process. We also use Government framework agreement including the Crown Commercial Service frameworks, to procure common commodity good and services, a well a the NHS Terms and Conditions where applicable. These each set out the behaviour that buyer and supplier can expect of each other throughout procurement and supply chain relationships, including specific provision on modern slavery and compliance with relevant legislation. Additionally, we have updated our Commercial Policy and supporting process to provide awareness of the Modern Slavery Helpline We look to provide continuous improvement to be more resilient to modern slavery and the focus this in 2022 will be on implementing and incentivising responsible business practice to protect worker in our supply chains. This will be achieved by using the Government guidance a part modern slavery due diligence check for both new and existing suppliers. Diversity and Inclusion policy The purpose of this policy is to ensure that we realise our ambition to create an inclusive culture and work environment, where everyone feel that they can be themselves and are valued for the difference that they bring. This furthers our commitment to having a diverse and representative workforce, alongside ensuring that our action demonstrate a zero-tolerance approach to inappropriate behaviour and unequal treatment and where it is safe to challenge at all levels. Code of Business Conduct The Code of Business Conduct fulfils the dual role of protecting our interest and protecting staff from any possible accusation that they have not acted properly. All employee and all staff are provided with a copy of this document and, where necessary, can refer to the detailed provisions. This Code make clear the duty and obligation of all staff. It outline the support available in NHS Digital to protect staff from accusation of inappropriate conduct in carrying out their work. It set the boundary of acceptable business conduct and behaviour. Review of effectiveness Our goal for the next financial year form part of our effort to continuously improve how we protect worker from exploitation. In line with our commitment to comply with the Governments commercial policy and standards, we will put in place appropriate measure to do this effectively. To achieve this, in 2022/23 we will: apply effective and strengthened ongoing contract management and quality assurance through collaborative engagement with supplier to ass risk during selection and approval process and put mitigation plan in place if red flag are raised, including monitoring and audit throughout the commercial life cycle require supplier to evidence strong social value by including social value evaluation criterion (where relevant and proportionate) to achieve improved social value awareness and compliance across all our activity continue to support our staff to understand what step they should be taking to prevent modern slavery, including increasing awareness of reporting mechanism for raising concern and focus ongoing effort in delivering/making available appropriate annual training to our procurement and commercial staff, to build their capability to identify and address modern slavery risks; and strengthen our risk identification and due diligence measure by mandating, where appropriate, supplier to complete the Modern Slavery Assessment Tool Adoption of statement This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and applies to NHS Digital. The Board approved this statement at it meeting on 8 June 2022. Last edited: 8 July 2022 4:38 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Accessibility Accessibility This website is run by the Health and Social Care Information Centre, operating a NHS Digital. We want a many people a possible to be able to use our website, and we have designed it to be accessible. Page content How you can use this website This accessibility statement is for the NHS Digital website (digital.nhs.uk) only. It doe not cover any subsites (which would look like: examplesite.digital.nhs.uk),or any website linked from this one. Those site will have their own accessibility statements. On this website, you should be able to: change colours, contrast levels, and font zoom in up to 300% with text staying visible on the screen, and most image scaling without resolution loss navigate most of the website using a keyboard navigate most of the website using speech recognition software read most of the website using a screen reader, including the latest version of JAWS, NVDA, and VoiceOver read most of the website on device without a screen, like a braille computer use the website even if Javascript is switched off We've made the website text a simple a possible to understand, aiming for a reading age of a 12 year old. Some of our content is technical, and we use technical term where there is no easier wording we could use without changing what the text means. If you have a disability then. How accessible this website is The majority of this website is fully accessible, and we run weekly audit to identify any new problems. We know that some part of the website aren't fully accessible: we have a large number of old publication document which are in PDF format, and haven't been designed for accessibility some content is embedded in our website, such a map and videos, and you cannot easily scale these on screen (but you can open a full screen version) data visualisation tool in the website currently use inaccessible technology such a PowerBI and Tableau Where our feature are not accessible, we conduct a disproportionate burden assessment and . How to get information in an accessible format If you have problem accessing information on this website, or would like any of our work in a different format like a more accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording, or braille: email: telephone: 0300 303 5678 We'll consider your request, and aim to get back to you within 3 days. Reporting accessibility problem We're always looking to improve the accessibility of the website. If you find any problem which aren't listed on this page, or think that we're not meeting the requirement of the accessibility regulation then please email to let u know. Enforcement procedure The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the accessibility regulations. If youre not happy with how we respond to your complaint,. Technical information about this website's accessibility The Health and Social Care Information Centreis committed to making it website accessible, in accordance with the . This website is partially compliant with theAA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below. Where complying with the regulation would be a disproportionate burden, we conduct assessment and publish them on our . Issues with technology The vast majority of our website work correctly on any web technology. For security reasons, we only support TLS 1.2 and higher security protocols, and this mean that some older browser will not show the site. How our site look and work is based on HTML5, and we test for and support the following browsers: (versions in support) (versions in support) (versions in support) (versions in support) We also test in the to ensure that the site render correctly fornon-screen users. You may experience unexpected behaviour in other browsers, although we use fully validated code which should work on any modern (HTML5) browser. Internet Explorer no longer supported NHS Digital no longer support Internet Explorer, a this browser is now at the end of it lifecycle. . Issues with link We are aware of the following issue within the link on our site: some link text doesn't make sense when read on it own (for example 'click here') on some page there aremultiple link with the same link text but different destination on one page many older PDF file contain broken link which do not resolve - we do not intend to resolve these a it is a We scan the site weekly for broken links, and look to fix them a soon a they are identified. The content team are working through the link which don't make sense on their own, and we aim to have fixed these by August 2019. Issues with PDFs and other document PDFs are not able to comply with the requirement of the web accessibility standard, and we do not generally upload new PDFs.Where we do create new PDFs, we use the PDF/A standard which is more accessible. Our site contains a large number of PDFs created in previous years, especially in our data and information . Where these are no longer being updated, we do not intend .The accessibility regulationsif theyre not essential to providing our services. By September 2020 we intend to have completed the process of converting PDFs and word document still in active use into accessible web formats. We do not generally add new PDFs to our site.There are some exceptions: we add some PDFs a downloads of report or publications, but where a web page version is also available our , which must, by law, be laid before parliament in a printed version, and then appear unaltered our which must, by law, include a signature in order to be valid downloads intended for print purposes, such a poster We also have a number of form in Microsoft Word format, which are not accessible.We will either replace these with accessible HTML forms, or remove them, by September 2020. Known word document form Word document form Word document form On web page Issues with image and video We strive to make all of our content accessible.We are aware of the following issue with image and video on our site: Video content us automated closed captioning and transcripting, and this is often inaccurate.By September 2019 we will review these caption and ensure their accuracy manually. Some of the image on our site are complex diagram where suitable is not possible.A list of these image is below.By September 2020 we intend to have reviewed all of these images, and where possible will have converted them to accessible format such a SVG, used a different visualisation method, built the visualisation in HTML5, or added detailed description text to the page Known image with accessibility problem Inaccessible image Page containing inaccessible image Type and description Technical architecture illustration Specification illustration Infographic Timeline Infographics (with alt text) Flow chart Architectural diagram Flowchart Lifecycle diagram Process flow and various others Decision tree Decision tree and scope Decision tree and option Decision tree and option Tables Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Solutions illustration Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Screenshot labelling Decision tree Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Flow diagram Flow diagram Flow diagram Architectural diagram Flow diagram Flow diagram Flow diagrams/decision tree Flowcharts Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Flow diagram Architectural diagram Flow diagram Flow diagram Flow diagram Map Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Architectural diagram Issues with text and content There are some issue with text and content which we are aware of: not all of our content reach our target reading age of 12 year old.We are resolving this a content come up through it review cycle, and this should be largely complete by September 2021. some of our page title are long, causing a technical fail on which requires title to be short. In most cases, this is related to legal or formal name for publications.We are not going to fix this, a the content is still understandable, and changing title might cause compliance issues. Issues with interactive tool We are aware that we have PowerBI and Tableau visualisation available on the website.Neither of these software item are accessible, and cannot be made accessible.In some case the information is not easily available to user in an accessible format.We are currently investigating accessible visualisation tools.If you require information from these tools, then please . Pages with inaccessible interactive tool Pages with inaccessible interactive tool Page with interactive tool Alternative accessible data source Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown How we test this website This website undergoes automated testing against the W3C WAIusing the automated tool weekly.This tool scan 100% of our web pages, and test against all the criterion in the guideline which are possible to automate. The weekly report is reviewed by the website development team, with any action taken and prioritised into our future work.We aim to fix all high priority issue with one week of them being identified. In addition, we conduct internal testing against known accessibility issue which are not able to be found through automated testing, on a sampled basis.We last conducted an accessibility check on these area in August 2020. About this chart This chart show the compliance a measured by our automated testing tool, Sitemorse against the A, AA, and AAA standard of the WCAG 2.1 specification. Each standard ha it own point of compliance, so those score are shown separately. However, you cannot claim a higher standard if you do not meet the lower ones, which mean that the number of page meeting AA or AAA is limited to the number of page also passing the A standard. What automated testing tell u We use automated testing to drive most of our improvement to accessibility on the site. Automated testing can't find everything that could be improved, but is rarely wrong about what it doe find. This mean we have fixed ten of thousand of accessibility problem which manual checking would have missed. We do also undertake manual testing, including testing with real user with accessibility needs. We follow best practice across the industry, and try to keep up with the latest technique for making our site accessible. Accessible feature we test manually There are a number of accessibility feature which we test manually, which include: , which is done at design stage by using tool to check we meet the AAA standard of a , which feature across the site suitability for , including aiming for areading age of 12 manual check against the W3C validator ensuring that page element render correctly at all sizes, including when zoomed to 500% assessing content for readability using a mixture of tool which use mathematical method to ass readability, and manual expert checking check of colour contrast examining markup and alt text using special tool checking content in a text-only browser using screen reader to read text aloud using disability simulation tool to browse the website What we are doing to improve We are actively looking to improve the accessibility on our website. The improvement below have been identified on our current work schedule. Accessibility improvement roadmap Target date Item of work Type of work Status March 2020 Information architecture change to publication title in order to pas validation Developer Complete January 2020 Finish removing unclear links, like 'See more' Content Complete May 2019 Remove deprecated markup from tables, in order to pas validation Developer Complete June 2019 Change background colour of website to grey in order to better serve dyslexic user Developer Complete Last edited: 4 April 2024 11:52 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Terms and condition Terms and condition Use of this website is governed by these term and conditions. Page content 1. About these term 1.1 Please read these term and condition carefully before you start to use this website (being https://digital.nhs.uk/ and all section and pages). You may access and use this website if you agree to be legally bound by these term and condition set out here. If you do not agree to be legally bound by these term and condition please do not access and/or use this website. 1.3 The entire content of this website, and the individual articles, items, medium file and asset published are owned by NHS England, unless otherwise indicated. 1.4 This website is intended for use only by people who live in the United Kingdom. References to the NHS mean the NHS in England unless otherwise stated. Services and arrangement may differ elsewhere in the UK. 1.5 If you have any query in respect of your use of this website please contact u at: or at: NHS England 7 and8 Wellington Place Leeds West Yorkshire LS1 4AP 1.6 We may make change to these term and conditions, the term and condition applicable to any specific sub-site, the privacy and cooky policy and any other policy applicable to your use of this website, at any time. Your continuing use of this website constitutes your acceptance of and agreement to any such changed term and condition and policies. 1.7 To the extent that we are practically able to do so, we may terminate your access to any part of this website at any time without notice if you breach any of these term and conditions. 2. Accessibility and browser 2.1 NHS England aim to make this website and the material provided accessible to a many people a possible. This website is designed to work with the latest version of Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome and Apple Safari, and us standard which should work on the majority of browser in use. We offer no warranty for this website working in any particular browser or configuration. Please note that you may see inconsistency in the presentation of page if you are using an older or deprecated version of a browser. . 3. Information about you and your visit to this website 3.1 NHS England process information about you in accordance with our . By using this website, you consent to such processing and you warrant that all data provided by you is accurate. 4. Freedom of Information 4.1 The data right and responsibility of NHS England, it staff and of patient is governed by the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and the Data Protection Act 1998. For policy and other information see . 5. Registering to use this website 5.1 In order to access certain content, system or interactive feature on this website you may be asked to choose, or be provided with, a password or other log in detail to access part of this website. As a minimum, password you set for use with this website must have a level of complexity which ensures they cannot be easily guessed by hacker or malicious software. They should: be at least twelve character long; not contain your user name, real name, or organisation name; not appear in the list of top 10,000 passwords; not use sequential key character on the keyboard (such a qwerty, asdfg, 12345) 5.2 In line with Government best practice, we recommend using the three random word approach, which us three or more randomly chosen word like saloonbadgertree or coffeetrainfish. These word should be random, and not related personally to you (so not involving a favourite thing, holiday, relative). Passwords must not under any circumstance be shared with anyone. 5.3 You may terminate your account registration using the relevant link in your account pages. This will clear any personal information you have saved. Subscriptions to our email can be terminated using the Unsubscribe link provided in the emails. 6. Prohibited us of this website 6.1 You may use this website only for lawful purposes. You may not use this website: in any way that breach any applicable local, national or international law or regulation; in any way that is unlawful, fraudulent or harmful to other users, or ha any unlawful, fraudulent or harmful purpose or effect; to send, knowingly receive, upload, download, use or re-use any material which doe not comply with these term and conditions; to transmit, or produce the sending of, any unsolicited or unauthorised advertising or promotional material or any other form of similar solicitation (spam); and to knowingly transmit any data, send or upload any material that contains viruses, Trojan horses, worms, spyware or any other harmful program or similar computer code designed to adversely affect the operation of any computer software or hardware. 6.2 You also agree not to access without authority, interfere with, damage or disrupt any part of this website; any equipment or network on which this website is stored; any software used in the provision of this website; or any equipment or network or software owned or used by any third-party. 7. Material on this website 7.1 The material on this website includes information, data, text, images, videos, Information Standards, interactive services, link to product and apps and other work ('NHS England Content'). You acknowledge that all right in copyright, patents, design rights, trade mark and other intellectual property right (whether registered, capable of registration or otherwise) throughout the world, in this website and all NHS England Content are owned by, or licensed to NHS England, unless otherwise indicated. Some NHS England Content includes identifiable third-party content for which we will have sought permission for it inclusion. 7.2 Except for your use of this website in accordance with these term and conditions, you are granted no right in respect of this website or any NHS England Content. 7.3 The Information Standards are published by u and apply to organisation in the health and social care sector. They relate to the processing of information such that data can be shared, compared and understood across the sector, and used for planning, monitoring and good patient care. For further detail please see . The Data Co-ordination Board (DCB) assures the quality of information standards. 8. Your use of NHS England content 8.1 Copyright and database right in the NHS England Content are released free-of-charge under the current version of the , except where specified, either in these term and conditions, elsewhere on this website or in the OGL terms. This licence doe not extend to any other intellectual property rights, including but not limited to patents, design right and trade marks. If there is any conflict between the OGL term and these term and condition these term and condition shall take precedence. 8.2 This mean that you can use NHS England Content, including copying it, adapting it, and using it for any purpose, including commercially, provided you follow these term and condition and the term of the OGL. 8.3 The OGL term do not apply to the following category of NHS England Content, and therefore these must not be used without our or the relevant owner prior consent: any logos, visuals, image rights, trademarks, trade name and design style (except where these are integral to a document or data set) of NHS England, or any predecessor or linked body, a well a of any partner or contributor; the Information Standards. NHS England permit the copying and re-use of Information Standards, in whole or in part, for commercial and non-commercial purpose but, to protect the integrity of the Information Standards, you are not permitted to adapt, amend or decompile the Information Standards for any purpose without our prior consent; software, source code and any technical documentation relating to software or source code except where released on https://developer.nhs.uk/, a public repository on GitHub, or any other platform we may specify from time-to-time; information owned by third party which we are not authorised to licence on to you.This information will be clearly marked. If in doubt, contact u using the detail above; information gained through any service or section on this website (or linked websites) which can only be accessed by logged-in users; and any information which is marked a being under a different licence, or not for release. 8.4 If you do use any NHS England Content you must attribute it with the following statement: Information from NHS England, licenced under the current version of the Open Government Licence. or in case where the NHS England Content is combined, adapted, or otherwise modified in line with these term and conditions: Contains information from NHS England, licenced under the current version of the Open Government Licence. 8.5 By using any NHS England Content you accept and agree to the following terms: you must not alter, adapt, edit or modify any NHS England branding where this is integral to a document or data set; if you do alter, adapt, edit or modify any NHS England Content in accordance with these term and conditions, where possible, you should remove the NHS England branding; you may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by NHS England of your site or any non-NHS England entity, product or content or any view expressed within your site or service; NHS England ha absolute editorial control over all NHS England Content and reserve the right to alter, adapt, edit, modify or restrict the availability of NHS England Content without prior notice; and you should refresh cached content every 24 hour to ensure you have the most up-to-date version. 9. Uploading material to this website 9.1 Whenever you make use of a feature that allows you to upload material to this website, for example when you participate in online discussions, contact other user of this website or submit any apps or products, you must comply with the standard set out in the comment and moderation policy. You warrant that any such contribution doe comply with those standards, and you indemnify u for any breach of that warranty. 9.2 Any material you upload to this website will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary, and NHS England ha the right to use, copy, distribute and disclose to third-parties any such material for any purpose. Furthermore NHS England also ha the right to disclose your identity to any third-party who is claiming that any material posted or uploaded by you to this website constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or their right to privacy. 9.3 NHS England will not be responsible, or liable to any third-party, for the content or accuracy of any material posted by your or any other user of this website. 9.4 NHS England ha the right to remove any material or posting you make on this website if, in our opinion, such material doe not comply with the standard set out in these term and condition and the comment and moderation policy. 9.5 Comments posted should relate to your personal experience or that of someone close to you. You should not name any individual (other than yourself) or include information through which someone else could identify an individual about whom you are writing. If you want to comment on someone el experience, (e.g. a relative or someone you care for) then you may do so if you ensure that you are not named in the posting and you state how the other person is connected to you (e.g. my father). You warrant that all statement of fact in any comment you submit are true, and that any expression of opinion is your honestly held opinion on those facts, or that of the person on whose behalf you are writing. 9.6 If you find any comment offensive or objectionable you may make a complaint to the moderator using the Report link provided at the foot of each published comment. 9.7 We have many measure in place to keep your information safe. But it is important that you also play your part visit the Government's Get Safe Online website for advice on how to do this. 10. Social media, bookmarking, and digital engagement 10.1 NHS England may from time to time provide third party or owned social medium and interactive service on this website or linked to this website, currently this includes and is not limited to: Youtube for sharing video content; Twitter for sharing news and participating in conversation with users; Blogs to share the opinion of NHS Englands staff and other key figures; Discussion Forums for participation in conversation with users; RSS feed for sharing news; Social bookmarking to allow user to share our content more easily on popular social medium platforms. 10.2 NHS England is under no obligation to oversee, monitor or moderate any interactive service we provide from this website, and we expressly exclude our liability for any loss or damage arising from the use of these interactive service by a user in contravention of these term and conditions, whether the service is moderated or not. 10.3 Our RSS feed can be used a part of your website; however, we do require that proper format and attribution are used. The attribution text should read NHS England RSS feeds. We reserve the right from time to time to restrict the distribution of NHS England RSS feed content and do not accept any liability for these feeds. 10.4 Use of our social bookmarking link is subject to these term and conditions, see Linking from this website below. 10.5 Although we do monitor and review discussions, chat, postings, transmissions, bulletin board and the like on this website and it subsections, we are under no obligation to do so and assume no responsibility or liability arising from the content of any such location nor for any error, omission, infringement, defamation, obscenity, or inaccuracy contained in any information within such location on this website. 10.6 The use of any of the interactive feature on this website by a minor is subject to the consent of their parent or guardian, and we advise parent to communicate with their child about their safety online, a moderation is not fool-proof. Minors who are using any interactive service should be made aware of the potential risk to them. Where we do moderate any of the interactive feature on this website, we will normally provide you with a mean of contacting the moderator, should a concern or difficulty arise. 11. Linking to this website 11.1 We do not object to you linking directly to page on this website. We reserve the right to move or change this website URLs at any time. Rather than deep linking we recommend linking to section homepages, which are le likely to move or change. 11.2 However, we dont give permission to suggest that your website is associated, or endorsed by us. 12. Linking from this website 12.1 We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the website we link to and do not necessarily endorse the view expressed within them. We aim to replace broken link to other site but cannot guarantee that these link will always work a we have no control over the availability of other sites. 12.2 Due to the very nature of the internet we cannot guarantee this website or other website we link to will always be available to you. 13. Disclaimer and liability 13.1 This website, all NHS England Content and all material relating to Government information, product and service (or to third-party information, product and services), is provided a is, without any endorsement and without warranty of any kind whether express or implied, including but not limited to the implied warranty of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security and accuracy. This mean that whilst we do try to ensure that all our information is correct, we are not liable for any error or omissions, and cannot be responsible for any impact these have on you. 13.2 If the need arises, we reserve the right to amend, delete, suspend or withdraw all or any part of this website without notice. NHS England will not be liable if for any reason this website or any part are unavailable at any time. 13.3 We do not warrant that the function of this website will be uninterrupted or error free, that defect will be corrected, or that this website or the server that make it available will be free of virus or represent the full functionality, accuracy or reliability of the materials. You should use your own virus protection software. 13.4 NHS England and any approving body are not the owners, manager or supplier of various product which can be accessed from this website. NHS England or the approving body set standard for reviewing the products, but this doe not mean that NHS England or the approving body ha itself reviewed all aspect of each product, or version of the same product. NHS England or the approving body is not responsible or liable for any advice, or any other information, service or product that you obtain using any such products. 13.5 Material on this website is provided for information and educational purpose only and we do not guarantee that information we provide will meet your health or medical requirements. NHS England doe not give medical advice in relation to any individual case or patient, nor doe NHS England provide medical or diagnostic services. For le urgent health needs, contact your GP or local pharmacist in the usual way. If you have an urgent medical need you should call 111. If a life is at risk, call 999. 13.6 In no event will we be liable for any loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising from use or loss of use of, data or profit arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. Nothing in these term and condition will operate to limit or exclude liability for death or personal injury arising from our negligence, nor our liability for fraudulent misrepresentation, nor any other liability which cannot be excluded or limited under applicable law. 14. General 14.1 If any of these term and condition are determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable then the remaining term and condition shall remain in full force and effect. 14.2 The law of England shall apply exclusively to these term and condition and to all matter relating to use of this website. Any cause of action arising under these term and condition or the use of this website shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court of England and Wales. Last edited: 24 October 2023 10:23 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Contact u Contact u Find out how to contact u about our services. Page content NHS App The NHS Digital service desk listed on this page cannot offer any support or guidance over the telephone relating to NHS App or COVID Pass enquiries. Please use the following link for support: NHS App If you need help with the NHS App or login, please visit for more information and to contact the relevant team. If you need medical advice, call 111 If you are a patient and you need medical advice, you should call 111, or use the web service at. Other useful contact COVID-19 vaccination - for COVID-19 vaccination query visitthe , or call 119 NHS service -(you do not need to know your to use NHS services, but it can be useful to have it) Prescription Prepayment Certificates (PPCs) - Jobs - Internet Explorer - out of support from 15 June From 15 June 2022, Internet Explorer is no longer supported byor NHS Digital. If you're still using this browser to access NHS Digitals web-based systems, you should switch to a modern alternative such a Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome. It is the responsibility of individual organisation to make sure their team are using supported products. You will need to contact your own local IT service desk to find out more about your organisation plan to switch off Internet Explorer and to ensure continued access to our services. Enquiries about NHS Digital service NHS Digital run service which support the NHS. . If you cannot find the information you need about a specific service, our customer service centre may be able to help.We are unable to assistwith enquiry about the wider NHS. Email Telephone Our customer service centre is open 9am to5pm, Monday to Friday, except on public holidays. NHS Digital service desk NHS Digital also operates some other service desks, which may beable to help with technical enquiries.The NHS Digital service desks. Service desk Deals with enquiry about Telephone Email NHS Digital enquiry Enquiries NHS App team NHS App features, data and information Cyber security Report cyber security concern Exeter helpdesk OpenExeter NHS national service desk Spine, Secondary Uses Service (SUS) and National Back Office Information standard service desk Coding product including SNOMED-CT and ICD Developer help and support Software development project using our APIs Press enquiry If you are a journalist or member of the media, then you can contact our medium team. You can reach the medium team on. Complaints We take complaint about our work, staff, and level of service very seriously, and have acomplaints procedurein place to deal with issues. If you are unhappy with any aspect of the service you receive, you should speak to a member of our staff a soon a possible. NHS Digital merged with NHS England on 1 February 2023. We can continue to help with query relating to the systems, service and function that were formerly run by NHS Digital, and which are now managed by NHS England. We cannot deal with complaint about: Find out more about our complaint process: Freedom of information On 1 February 2023, NHS Digital merged with NHS England. As a result, Freedom of Information (FOI) request will now be processed via the NHS England Customer Contact Centre. Please send Freedom of Information, Environmental Information Regulation and Internal Review request to . Please write 'Freedom of Information' in the subject line. If you have difficulty making a written request, please call the Customer Contact Centre on 0300 311 22 33. Requests which have been sent to the NHS Digital Contact Centre before 1 February will be responded to a wa normal practice at that time. The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act give you the right to obtain information held by public authority unless there are good reason to keep it confidential. Our location Our head office is in Leeds: 7 and8 Wellington Place, Leeds, West Yorkshire, LS1 4AP . Last edited: 17 April 2024 7:53 am Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search Careers Careers Whatever your role, you will be making a difference to people's lives. We work in flexible team on some of the most exciting project the tech or health sector have to offer. Latest job How we make a difference Serving the public, supporting NHS staff, providing care and research through data 4 million logins a week The NHS App allows user to manage their own care, from ordering repeat prescription to booking appointment 1 billion prescription In 2022, 1 billion prescription were dispensed using the Electronic Prescription Service, making prescribing safer, easier and faster Why join us? Meet some of our people Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Search Tell u what you think of our website Tell u what you think of our website We welcome your feedback about our website and how it works. This form is for feedback about the NHS Digital website NHS Digital is the national information and technology partner to the health and care system. If your feedback is about the NHS.UK website, use the . We cannot deal with any enquiry about medical conditions, or about any other part of the NHS. If you need medical assistance contact 111 or use the online service at. . We found some error in the detail you provided. Please check below for details. Form submitted successfully Thank you for taking the time to tell u what you think of the website. Why are you visiting NHS Digital today? If we know why people are visiting the website, we can work on finding way to meet the actual need of our online visitors. Did you find what you were looking for? Yes No By asking what you're trying to find, and how easy or hard it wa to find it, we learn where the website is working well, and where we need to look closer to make it better. Tell u more: This is where you can tell u what you liked or disliked, what went well, and what we can do better. Which web page(s) are you giving u feedback on? Please supply the web address - it make it easier for u to fix any issues. About you Organisation name The more we know about who is visiting, the more confident we will be that we are involving the right people in user research a we continue to improve the site. Role Tell u if you came here for your work. Email address We only use your email to contact you to respond to a query or to invite you to participate in user research activities. Any personal information you give to u will be processed in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2018. We will use the information to process your request and to provide any further relevant information or service you have requested. It will also be used to support our service development activities. About NHS Digital Internet explorer is no longer supported We have detected that you are using Internet Explorer to visit this website. Internet Explorer is now being phased out by Microsoft. As a result, NHS Digital no longer support any version of Internet Explorer for our web-based products, a it involves considerable extra effort and expense, which cannot be justified from public funds. Some feature on this site will not work. You should use a modern browser such a Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have difficulty installing or accessing a different browser, contact your IT support team. Digital Menu Search RSS feed RSS feed NHS Digital update are available a RSS feed Page content Blog feed All blog Design Matters Transformation Tech Talk Data Points Inside Story Cyber alert feed News feed Statistical publication feed How to use these feed To receive update by RSS, you will need an RSS feed reader, or browser extension. Last edited: 22 September 2022 4:51 pm Legal Get in touch Follow u on social medium