The NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative (HIC) is a partnership of 28 NHS trusts, organisation and health boards, including those hosting NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (BRCs), working together to facilitate the equitable re-use of NHS data for translational research. The NIHR HIC ha established cross-site data collaboration in area such a cardiovascular medicine, critical care, renal disease, infectious diseases, and cancer. Facilitate the equitable re-use of NHS data for translational research; More effective use of electronic patient records; Improving the ability to draw comparison from research and analysis; Making information held easier to find and use; Better opportunity to link with other public organisations, charities, academic organisation and industry to improve patient outcome National Institute for Health Research Home The NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative (HIC) is a partnership of NHS trusts, organisation and health boards, including those hosting NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (BRCs), working together to facilitate the equitable re-use of NHS data for translational research. The NIHR HIC ha established cross-site data collaboration in area such a cardiovascular medicine, critical care, renal disease, infectious diseases, cancer and more. Recent News 08 February 2024 The NIHR HIC welcome it 35th collaborator, Whittington Health NHS Trust 11 July 2023 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme collaborate on paper published in Infectious Diseases and Therapy. 01 July 2023 The new NIHR HIC Data Sharing Framework commences from 1 July 2023, a full list of collaborator is available 23 June 2023 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes poster for the EASL 2023 Congress 2023. 14 July 2022 NIHR HIC Renal Transplantation Theme publishes paper in Frontiers in Nephrology. 23 June 2022 NIHR HIC Colorectal Cancer Theme publishes paper in BMJ Health and Care Informatics along with a review from thePatient and Public Group (PPG) of Bowel Cancer Intelligence UK (BCI-UK). 16 June 2022 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes paper in the International Journal of Epidemiology (IJE). Archived News 03 February 2023 The NIHR HIC welcome it 34th collaborator, Birmingham Womens & Childrens NHS Foundation Trust 02 December 2022 The NIHR HIC welcome it 33rd collaborator, NHS Blood and Transplant 08 November 2022 The NIHR HIC welcome it 32nd collaborator, NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde 27 October 2022 The NIHR HIC welcome it 31st collaborator, Blackpool Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust 26 April 2022 NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Theme publishes paper in the International Journal of Cardiology. 09 March 2022 NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Theme publishes paper in the Journal of the American Heart Association. 24 February 2022 NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Theme publishes paper in Plos Medicine. 11 February 2022 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes article on Wellcome Open Research. 2 December 2021 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme selected a poster prize winner at FIS Conference. 15 October 2021 The NIHR HIC welcome it 30th collaborator, Croydon Health Service NHS Trust. 29 July 2021 The NIHR HIC welcome it 29th collaborator, Alder Hey Childrens NHS Foundation Trust. 01 July 2021 NIHR HIC Critical Care Theme publishes paper in Critical Care Medicine. 26 June 2021 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes paper in BMC Infectious Diseases. 06 May 2021 New NIHR HIC Myeloma data collaboration established in partnership with Myeloma UK. 30 April 2021 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes paper in Hepatology Communications. 04 March 2021 The NIHR HIC welcome it 28th collaborator, Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. 20 January 2021 Manchester BRC director highlight important NIHR HIC work. 04 January 2021 The NIHR HIC welcome it 27th collaborator, Royal Berkshire Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. 01 December 2020 The NIHR HIC welcome it 26th collaborator, Cardiff and Vale University Health Board. 19 November 2020 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes first collaborative paper. 14 October 2020 NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes second paper. 13 September 2020 The NIHR HIC are supporting a new study to review the impact of a digital alert system to monitor patient with sepsis at NHS hospitals. 27 August 2020 NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Theme publishes third paper in The Lancet. 22 May 2020 NIHR HIC COVID-19 data collaboration launched. 03 July 2020 NIHR HIC is hiring: were looking for a Project Support Manager to join the Coordinating Centre. NIHR HIC welcome it 25th collaborator: Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative is hiring. Were looking for a Programme Manager with a flexible base NIHR publishes blog post. The post focus on how the NIHR HIC is maximising NHS data for translational research Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research About The National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) The NIHR aim to improve the health and wealth of the UK through research. Its mission is to provide a health research system in which the NHS support outstanding individual working in world-class facilities, conducting leading-edge research focused on the need of patient and the public. The NIHR support research from laboratory bench to bedside for the benefit of patient and the economy. It work with patient and the public to shape the research agenda, finding new way of preventing, identifying and treating ill health, evaluating the effectiveness and impact of new healthcare treatments, and ensures that the best possible evidence is available to inform decision about health and social care. The NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative (HIC) The NIHR HIC is a collaboration between NHS trusts, each of which ha a strong relationship with a partner university. These relationship have been strengthened and supported by the NIHR, in particular through the establishment of NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (BRCs) within each trust. It is the BRCs that provide the focal point for the NIHR HIC, bringing together clinical, scientific, and informatics expertise at each trust to improve the quality and availability of patient information. The aim of the NIHR HIC are to: support the establishment and maintenance of catalogued, comparable, comprehensive flow of patient data at each trust: catalogued, in that the context of collection, the intended interpretation, or the provenance of the data is properly recorded and understood. comparable, in that unnecessary difference in the way in which data is recorded, processed, and represented are reduced or eliminated. comprehensive, in that the flow contain all of the core information needed for high quality care, service evaluation, and translational research. to create a governance framework for data sharing and re-use across the trust and partner organisations, including: a data sharing agreement, allowing for the transfer of deidentified and/or identified information between trusts. a publication policy, ensuring that contributor across the collaborative receive appropriate credit. a shared approach to research collaboration and intellectual property, streamlining the process of data re-use for scientific progress and patient benefit. An additional aim is to demonstrate this new capability the data flow and the governance framework through the delivery of a number of exemplar research studies, one in each of the established therapeutic areas. The NIHR HIC trust The NIHR HIC is formed of NHS trusts, some with a university partner: Trust and Health BoardUniversityUniversity of Liverpool Queen Mary University of LondonUniversity of ManchesterUniversity of CambridgeCardiff UniversityImperial College LondonUniversity College London Institute of Child HealthKings College LondonHull UniversityImperial College LondonKings College LondonUniversity of LiverpoolUniversity of ManchesterUCL Institute of OphthalmologyUniversity of GlasgowUniversity of NottinghamUniversity of OxfordUniversity of Oxford The Institute of Cancer ResearchUniversity of SheffieldUniversity College LondonUniversity of BirminghamUniversity of BristolUniversity of LeicesterUniversity of Southampton University College London The NIHR HIC benefit More effective use of electronic patient record Electronic patient record hold detailed information about patient life circumstances, their medical history, and the treatment they receive. This information is needed by frontline healthcare professional for the delivery and continuity of care. When collected together, it is also extremely useful to health planner in assessing what service are needed, and what improvement could be made, and by researcher working to turn scientific progress into patient benefit. By improving the quality, availability and consistency of electronic patient record nationally, the NIHR HIC contributes to improving patient outcomes, reducing the cost of care and accelerating health research and service improvements. Improving the ability to draw comparison from research and analysis Patient information is captured in different setting and held in different ways, but in order to be able to draw reliable research conclusion it is vital to be able to compare like with like. The NIHR HIC is helping to check that data can be sensibly compared by creating different data model across the patient experience, from initial diagnosis to eventual outcome. This help to identify way in which data may need to be adapted to enable effective comparison and provide more assurance that conclusion are sound. Making information held easier to find and use There is a wealth of information available about the diagnosis of patients, their treatment over a period of time, and the outcome that they experience. A key challenge for researcher is that this information is held in many different IT systems, which need to work together to provide the fullest picture of what ha happened, and what ha been effective or not. The NIHR HIC is working on way to pool data from operational system into central store more effectively, and develop different tool and technique to review, analyse, standardise and present the data in different and more useful, clinically effective ways. Better opportunity to link with other public organisations, charities, academic organisation and industry to improve patient outcome Effective research by company such a those making medicine and medical equipment is vital for improving treatment and outcome for patients. There is a real opportunity to enhance the work of these company by making available high quality and relevant clinical data, which ha been collected in standard way to help comparison. Through the NIHR HIC, prospective research partner are able to work with it member to determine the feasibility of specific studies. A key benefit is the ability to combine the patient population across the different organisation for each research theme. Where a study is feasible and ethical approval is obtained, the ability to form patient group rapidly across multiple organisations, and to draw some or even all the clinical data required from existing information systems, greatly reduces the cost and timeline of execution of research projects. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Governance Protecting information is vitally important to the NHS trust that make up the NIHR HIC. These trust work together to ensure that your data is protected at every step of the journey and is only used legally and appropriately. Each trust collect and process data about patient they look after, allowing them to provide the best possible care. Each organisation that collect personal data on the patient they treat is known a a data controller. This mean they are responsible for looking after personal data and deciding how it can be processed (or used) to enable the NHS to provide the best service possible. Each trust ha a legal obligation to keep your information secure and ensure that it is used appropriately. Any time data is used for research or other activity a part of the NIHR HIC the trust involved ensure that your information is processed securely and appropriately by always making sure that the data controller (trusts responsible for the data) agree and sign off that that they are happy for patient data to be used in this way. An important objective of the NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative wa to develop a governance framework that could be used by NHS trust to support data sharing in a wide range of research collaborations. Such a framework ha been created and any NHS trust that ha joined the Collaborative can use it to support the sharing of data. The Collaborative doe not oblige any NHS trust to share any data and leaf it to each individual NHS trust to identify any data that it wish to share. In addition, before sharing any data, the individual NHS trust must be satisfied that it is authorised to share that data. All of the research collaboration that benefit from using the framework developed by the Collaborative have the ultimate aim of improving treatment and outcome for patients. Each trust is required to provide a privacy notice that explains how and what they will do with data. To view the NIHR privacy policy please visit . Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Architecture Datasets and tool Data used by researcher will be de-identified names, addresses, NHS numbers, specific date will be removed, unless there is explicit ethical and legal approval to do otherwise. The NIHR HIC work with the information governance team within each of the participating trust to ensure that patient information is managed in accordance with NHS and (ICO) guidelines. How to work with NIHR HIC centre and theme If you are a researcher and are interested in working with NIHR HIC centre or themes, please contact the relevant centre using the . NIHR HIC datasets are not currently available to researcher outside of the NIHR HIC; however it may be possible to establish new collaborations. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Metadata Metadata In order for NHS Trusts to effectively collaborate on the re-use of routine clinical data in a research context, a number of tool and technique have been built and implemented by the Health Informatics Collaborative. A key problem is the management of metadata: information that describes how a particular item of data ha been collected, stored, and may be re-used.Context may be given to each question in a form, each column in a database or spreadsheet, or each field in a database query, making the data easier to understand and avoiding miscommunications and error being made. Metadata Catalogue The metadata catalogue is central to our ability to record metadata about large datasets across a large number of centres. It is a tool that provides astandard way for recording information about data standards, data assets, data flows, terminologies, and phenotypes. Much of the information can be time-consuming to enter manually, so the tool speed up this process by automating this documentation wherever possible, and allowing content to be collaboratively maintained by those with technical, clinical, or research-user viewpoints. The following video explains the purpose of the Metadata Catalogue and what it can do: Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Themes The development of the NIHR HIC capability ha focused on key therapeutic areas, chosen for their importance to patient and the NHS and also for the different challenge that they present in term of data quality and availability: COVID-19 cardiovascular medicine (formerly acute coronary syndromes) critical care ovarian cancer renal disease (formerly renal transplantation) viral hepatitis and liver disease cancer: breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate infectious disease hearing health musculoskeletal myeloma transfusion dependent anaemia diabetes childrens surgery outcome In addressing data quality and availability in these areas, the NIHR HIC partner have been able to build upon work by the following organisations: Hepatitis C Virus Research UK (HCV UK) NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT) Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC) Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP) National Cancer Intelligence Network (NCIN) UK Research Reserve (UKRR) Bloomsbury institute of Intensive Care Medicine (BiICM) Myeloma UK In each theme, clinicians, scientists, and informaticians from the partner organisation work together to deliver the NIHR HIC capability the data flow and the governance framework and to demonstrate that capability through exemplar research studies. Each of the theme is led by a different university-hospital partnership: , since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Medicine Theme ha been leading on a data collaboration to allow cardiovascular question to be answered in relation to COVID-19. The work ha been prioritised by the NIHR/BHF Cardiovascular Partnership, connecting the cross-BRC collaboration to the network of BHF Centres and Accelerators. (formerly acute coronary syndromes), by Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial College London , by University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and University College London , by Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the University of Cambridge , by Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust and Kings College London , by Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the University of Oxford , by Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust and Kings College London , by Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the University of Oxford , by Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial College London, and University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and University College London , by University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and University College London and Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust and Kings College London by Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial College London, and Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust and Kings College London , by University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. , by Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust and University of Leeds. , by University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , by University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , by University of Oxford How to work with NIHR HIC centre and theme If you are a researcher and are interested in working with NIHR HIC centre or themes, please contact the relevant centre using the. NIHR HIC datasets are not currently available to researcher outside of the NIHR HIC; however it may be possible to establish new collaborations. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cardiovascular COVID-19 Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Medicine Theme ha been leading on a data collaboration to allow cardiovascular question to be answered in relation to COVID-19. The work ha been prioritised by the NIHR/BHF Cardiovascular Partnership, connecting the cross-BRC collaboration to the network of BHF Centres and Accelerators. WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cancer: Colorectal Treatments are surgery, neoadjuvant radiotherapy (for patient with rectal cancer), and adjuvant chemotherapy (for patient with stage III/IV and high-risk stage II colon cancer). 5-year relative survival range from 90% in patient with early stage disease to 10% in patient with end stage disease. Colorectal screening ha been shown to reduce colorectal cancer incidence and mortality. 1.1 million patient are diagnosed with colorectal cancer every year. Incidence is closely related to western lifestyle and increase with age. Aims of the NIHR HIC The aim of the project is to collect detailed information from eight of the UKs major colorectal cancer centres. This information will provide a significant data resource outside of a clinical trial setting, to help our understanding of the factor that are important in the outcome of patient presented with colorectal cancer, which help the development of new and improved treatment and medicines. Collaborating centres: Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Lead Centre) Guys & St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust Imperial College Healthcare Trust University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust The Christie NHS Foundation Trust Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust University Hospitals Southampton NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cancer: Breast Breast cancer is the most common cancer and account for 15% of all new case of cancer in the UK (source: Cancer Research UK 2013) The NIHR HIC breast cancer theme is led by Dr Elinor Sawyer from Guys and St Thomas Hospital / Kings College London and Dr Richard Baird from the Cambridge Cancer Centre. They are working with other breast cancer expert in the UK through their BRCs Centres and the NIHR HIC to securely and anonymously share key information on breast cancer diagnosis, treatment and outcomes. Aims of the NIHR HIC There are different subtypes of breast cancer that can be categorised by tumour grade, hormone receptor and Her2 expression. The NIHR HIC breast cancer theme will look at the frequency of these different subtypes of breast cancer across the different BRCs to ass whether there is any evidence of an association of certain subtypes with ethnicity and age and whether these two factor influence the type of treatment given or the stage at which the cancer presents. The NIHR HIC breast cancer theme will also develop tool to analyse mine radiology and histopathology text report to help establish a robust database on patient with metastatic disease to ass outcome across the Biomedical Research Centres. Having done this the theme will investigate how many patient are being entered into trial and the use of novel treatment from the cancer drug fund, and ass response rate to these newer agents. Lead centre: Guys & St Thomas Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cancer: Lung The lung cancer theme is led by Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. Initial work in this theme will focus on non-smoking related lung cancer. Recent research indicates that the level of non-smoking related lung cancer are rising and it is becoming increasingly recognised a an important and distinct entity. Aims of the NIHR HIC The NIHR HIC data collection will allow u to determine the incidence, management and outcome of patient with non-smoking related lung cancer compared with smoking related cancer within the NIHR HIC centres. The data collection will contain data from patient with all form of lung cancer (both smoking and non-smoking related) so a to enable access to larger volume of quality data for use in approved research study aiming to understand and improve treatment and outcome for patient diagnosed with lung cancer in the future. Lead centres: Imperial College Healthcare NHS TrustUniversity College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cancer: Ovarian In 2011, the ten year estimated survival rate wa only 35% following diagnosis. As with most cancers, an earlier diagnosis result in a better outcome. Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cause of cancer among woman in the UK. Cancer Research UK (CRUK) estimate that 19 woman each day are diagnosed with ovarian cancer. Dr James Brenton, of the CRUK Cambridge Cancer Centre, is working with other ovarian cancer specialists, to share key information on ovarian cancer in order to make recommendation about how diagnosis and treatment can improve survival for woman with this type of cancer. While ovarian cancer is a big health concern in the UK, the number of woman looked after at any single NHS facility is too small for reliable study of the population. Treatments may also differ between hospitals, and it is therefore very important to gather data from different place to understand the best treatment and other factor for long-term survival. Aims of the NIHR HIC The specific objective from the NIHR HIC for treatment of ovarian cancer are to: Securely and anonymously collect and share data on ovarian cancer patientsReview what information we already have on ovarian cancer and see if they can add to the overall pictureEvaluate how ovarian cancer surgery is carried out and determine which of the different method best achieve the expected outcomes, eg reaching the five year survival, reducing a recurrence of ovarian cancer, and slowing down the progression of the disease We aim to keep everyone who is interested in this area up to date and informed of the progress we make. Currently all participating site have adopted the same process of collecting data on ovarian cancer from initial diagnosis to discharge and beyond. The data that is gathered cannot be linked to the identity of a single patient. Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (CUH) ha established a secure location for receiving the data from each participating site, and for storing and analysing this information on behalf of the NIHR HIC. Lead centre: Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cancer: Prostate The NHS ha pioneered novel diagnostic and treatment paradigm in prostate cancer. The prostate cancer NIHR HIC theme aim to use the data collected during routine practice and cancer registry submission to answer important question in prostate cancer management. A major lesson learned from the phase 1 project in ovarian cancer wa that data completeness and quality varied across centres. This is felt to be due to the particular challenge associated with manual data entry into electronic health record these include addressing issue with IT, process and clinician engagement. Aims of the NIHR HIC The first major aim of the prostate cancer theme is to investigate the current baseline of data collection, using the National Prostate Cancer Audit dataset, before instituting change to improve data completion. The site lead will act a champion to deliver this change. The team will also work with COSD and Genomics England to improve data collection for these projects. The resulting datasets will afford novel insight into the disease process underlying prostate cancer. Lead centres: University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation TrustGuys & St Thomas Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Cardiovascular (formally Acute Coronary Syndromes) The theme initial aim were to investigate Acute coronary syndrome (ACS). ACS refers to a group of condition that are due to decreased blood flow in the coronary artery in the heart. When untreated, part of the heart muscle is unable to function properly or dies. This syndrome is typically caused by a blood clot forming on a narrowing in one or more of the artery supplying the heart. This make the artery very narrow and usually cause chest pain at rest. The disease can range from a tight narrowing which cause pain but no damage to a complete blockage causing a major heart attack. This is a common condition and many hundred of patient attend our major centre every year. Patients often receive invasive treatment to open up the artery to improve blood flow to the heart muscle and this can save lives. This theme ha collated anonymised clinical information on patient presenting with this condition from five of the UKs major cardiac centres, including Imperial, University College London, St Thomas, Oxford and King College Hospital. data includes information on the state of the artery and the heart muscle and a measure of the degree of damage to the heart. This information is being used by NHS researcher to help our understanding of the factor that are important in the outcome of patient with acute coronary syndrome and will be publishing first results. The database ha been fully reviewed by the National Research Ethics Service. Further Information: For research query please contact Dr Jamil Mayet via Lead centre: NIHR Imperial Biomedical Research Centre Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Childrens Surgery Outcome Reporting (CSOR) Half a million child in England and Wales undergo surgery each year. In 2011, the National Confidential Enquiry into Patient Outcomes and Death (NCEPOD) review of childrens surgery in the UK concluded there wa room to improve the number of these child that were successfully treated. Across the UK, there is significant variation in the way child are treated for surgical condition (conditions which usually, but not always, require an operation). However, at the moment, we do not know which element of this variation affect how successfully child are treated. The NIHR HIC is supporting the CSOR Research Database, which ha been established to collect the data that are needed to identify which element of variation in management affect how successfully child are treated. The database will collect information directly from participating hospital electronic patient record systems, and link this information with routinely collected source of data (such a Hospital Episodes Statistics), and parent reported quality of life data. Additionally, the programme aim to provide a mechanism by which hospital can look in detail at how their practice impact their outcomes, compare their own practice to that of others, and element of good practice can be easily identified and shared. There are ten hospital participating in the first five year phase of the CSOR programme, and six condition (oesophageal atresia, gastroschisis, congenital diaphragmatic hernia, necrotising enterocolitis, posterior urethral valves, and Hirschsprungs disease) that are being included in the research database. By trying to identify and promote area of best practice, the CSOR programme will hopefully provide a mechanism for improving the number of child that are successfully treated, a well a improving the experience of child and their carers. To find out more about the CSOR programme, please visit Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Critical Care A critical illness is any illness that may be a direct threat to life, for example: Serious infection such a pneumonia or meningitisMajor trauma such a a serious road traffic accidentSerious stroke or heart attackFollowing major surgery Critically ill patient are usually cared for in Critical Care Units, Intensive Care or High Dependency Units staffed by specialist doctors, nurse and therapist with access to high level of monitoring (such a continuous blood pressure and oxygen levels) and treatment that allow the critical care team to rapidly detect and respond to any deterioration. Critical Care ha become increasingly sophisticated over the year and patient survival and outcome have improved. However le is known about survival beyond hospital. Research a to what treatment work best is difficult, a there are not enough patient with the same critical illness from which to draw significant conclusions. Even with large studies, there is too much variation to always be helpful. A number of important question remain unanswered about people who have been treated in critical care. For example: Does a critical illness have an impact on life span?If there is an impact, is it greater for those having had an infection or following a major accident?Do survivor require more input from hospital following discharge and how long is that input required? Aims of the NIHR HIC The Critical Care theme within the NIHR HIC aim to bring together data for analysis and interpretation to help identify what is known about survival outcome for people who have received critical care. This will help u to: Better understand critical illness and the long term effect of our treatment so we can tailor these treatment to individual patientsImprove our understanding of the long term consequence of multiple organ failure and treatment so patient have a better quality of life once discharged. Participating Critical Care Units display poster about this project and information leaflet are given to all patient (and if appropriate next of kin). A brief video explaining what is involved for those who participate can be viewed in the Further information For further information about the activity involving the public and patients, please visit the. For research query contact: Dr David Brealey, Consultant in Intensive Care Medicine and UCLH Critical Care Research Lead, via. You may also find further information via the following links: Lead centre: University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Diabetes Diabetes is one of the most common long-term condition that is characterised by raised glucose levels, and account for almost 10% of NHS expenditure. People living with diabetes access health care service due to a variety of reasons, often related to complication such a heart disease, circulatory problems, and sight loss. Similarly, many people with diabetes also access the NHS for a primary reason unrelated to diabetes, but which may be impacted by having diabetes. For example, elective surgery, obesity related complications, sepsis and mental health problems. Within hospitals, one in six (18%) bed are occupied by a person with diabetes, who often ha to stay for longer and ha a greater risk of mortality (6.4%). The COVID-19 pandemic ha highlighted the increased risk (2-3 fold) of mortality from COVID in patient with diabetes, with uncontrolled hyperglycaemia being a significant contributor to poorer outcomes. The main motivation for forming the diabetes theme within the HIC is to leverage routinely collected data to identify way in which to reduce the gap in outcome between people with and without diabetes. Aims of the NIHR HIC Many people with complex diabetes, and especially a high proportion of those with type 1 diabetes, receive their routine diabetes care through specialist service linked to hospitals. All of these setting collect a wealth of data on diabetes healthcare episodes, outcome and procedures. By forming a diabetes HIC theme, we aim to access and utilise unique data that exists within the NHS to generate new knowledge and information around the impact of diabetes, different therapies, and glucose control during admission that could feed back to the better management of diabetes, to ultimately create better outcomes. From our understanding of diabetes care and the current knowledge gaps, we propose to develop a research database of anonymised real world data to be used a a resource by approved researchers, academic and medical professional for the benefit of patient living with diabetes in the UK. Full ethical approval will be sought a part of the project and further information around governance within the NIHR HIC is available . Collaborating centre The diabetes HIC theme is being led by Professor Pratik Choudhary at the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Hearing health Hearing loss is a major public health problem requiring urgent action: one in six of the UK population (equivalent to 11 million people) life with hearing loss. This make hearing loss the most common sort of sensory loss, affecting people ability to communicate and function in society. The World Health Organisation ha identified hearing loss a the second leading cause of year lived with disability. Hearing loss increase social isolation and substantially increase the risk of suffering from depression. Recent evidence ha shown hearing loss in mid-life is associated with increased risk of cognitive decline and dementia. NHS routine data related to hearing loss take several forms, including: record of the adoption of measure and provision of advice for thepreventionof hearing lossnewborn hearing screening record about thedetectionof hearing loss at birthresults of audiometric assessment used to inform thediagnosisof hearing lossdata on the provision, maintenance, and use of hearing devices, including hearing aid and auditory implants, for themanagementof hearing loss and to reduce it impact While prevention is better than cure there is little understanding of why some people get hearing loss while others do not. A clearer understanding of this process could help develop bespoke preventative strategy for individual patients. Not everyone who could benefit from a hearing device us one, and those individual who do receive a hearing device dont always persist in using them or get the expected benefits. Modern hearing device now offer the opportunity to collect usage data which in turn, could be used to improve individual management strategy a well a wider clinical practice.Broadening the treatment of hearing loss, based on the discovery of new therapeutic target and techniques, offer the prospect of protecting and restoring hearing. Advancing the prevention, detection, diagnosis, and management of hearing loss will be greatly aided by the availability and integration of routinely collected multifaceted health data of patient with hearing loss from across the NHS. Aims of the theme: The aim of the Hearing theme is to make better use of patient health data captured in NHS record by collecting data in a standardised and integrated manner across UK site and setting up a structure for sharing and analysing these data anonymously.These new assembly of data will allow the growth of more effective management strategy for individual with hearing loss.The Hearing theme will develop the infrastructure and governance for the management and integration of this hearing health data. This will allow for: Exploration of the effect of known and novel risk factor such a disease clustering for hearing loss.Identification of the genetic cause of hearing lossDefinition of hearing loss sub-typesOptimisation of patient benefit from individualised treatment strategy Lead centres: Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Infectious Diseases The existing NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis theme ha been extended to take advantage of strategic opportunity for collaboration, impact, and benefit, and to build on a range of existing NIHR, NHS, and Public Health England (PHE) investments. Aims of the NIHR HIC This NIHR HIC theme is focussing on infectious disease of particular relevance to NHS infection control and PHE strategy, with a focus on sepsis and anti-microbial resistance, including E. coli, K. pneumoniae, S. aureus, Tuberculosis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and C. difficile. Of initial interest is E. Coli infection and the antibiotic prescribing practice to inpatients, at the NHS Acute Trusts involved to help enable research and improve clinical practice in this area. A better understanding of the relationship between antibiotic use and resistance is key. Lead centres: Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation TrustGuys & St Thomas Hospital NHS Foundation TrustCambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation TrustImperial College Healthcare NHS TrustUniversity College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Digital Alerting for Sepsis (DiAlS) The NIHR HIC are supporting a new study toreview the impact of a digital alert system to monitor patient with sepsis at NHS hospitals. The Digital Alerting for Sepsis (DiAlS) project set out to explore How effective is the introduction of digital alert in term of improving outcome of patient with sepsis? with four key objectives: Map the digital alert currently in use in multiple UK hospital to identify patient at risk of having sepsis Evaluate the impact of digital alert on outcome for patient at risk of sepsis Explore the implementation of digital alert across context and the impact of these on digital alert performance. Make recommendation on the effectiveness of different digital alert and the most effective method of implementation. A full summary of the Digital Alerting for Sepsis (DiAlS) project is available The research is led by the based in the School of Public Health at Imperial College London. The team will collaborate with the Oxford University NHS trust, Chelsea and Westminster NHS Trust, University College London, Reading and Berkshire NHS Trust, and the University of Cardiff, and is supported by the and the NIHR HIC. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Musculoskeletal The theme aim to investigate way to improve the outcome of musculoskeletal (MSK) conditions. MSK condition comprise immune mediated inflammatory disease affecting the joint and the connective tissue (IMIDs), a well a the most common condition of adulthood, osteoarthritis (OA). While IMIDs and OA are very different in nature, the common outcome when progressive and untreated is pain and loss of joint function, which can result in poor mobility and inability to work. MSK condition are the leading cause of disability in UK and a major cost to society. Research into early detection and prevention of damage can have a tremendous impact on the health of the nation and the productivity of our society. This theme is currently being established and it proposes to collect anonymised clinical information on patient affected by MSK condition from some of the UKs major MSK centres, including Leeds, Manchester, Nottingham, Birmingham, Newcastle, Oxford and Bristol. The data collected within the NHS hospital trust of these centre will be used to measure the impact of the new diagnostic and therapeutic intervention funded by NIHR on the real life outcome of patient with MSK conditions. Further Information: For research query please contact Dr Francesco Del Galdo via Lead centre: NIHR Leeds Biomedical Research Centre Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Myeloma Multiple myeloma is a form of blood cancer which is responsible for approximately 2% of cancer in the UK. The incidence of myeloma increase with age with the average age of diagnosis being 67. It is currently incurable although there have been significant improvement in outcome over the last decade due to more effective treatments, resulting in a longer life expectancy.Complications of myeloma can include low blood counts, infections, bone disease and kidney failure (end organ damage). Myeloma can be diagnosed on routine blood test but can also present with feature of end organ damage in an acute setting. Successful treatment aim to prolong life and maintain quality of life with patient frequently having period of time on and off treatment. Aims of the NIHR HIC This NIHR HIC theme is focusing on collecting real world data from people living with myeloma in the UK. Data collected will include diagnostic practice and treatment regimens, in addition to other factor that may have an impact on overall outcome and well-being. Collecting real world data is becoming increasingly important in many key area of cancer care. Examples of this may include reviewing the overall provision of care for this patient population, helping newer drug treatment secure long term NHS funding and access to clinical trials. This theme ha been established with the support of Myeloma UK, the national charity for patient in the UK living with myeloma, who understand the vital role real-world data ha in improving outcome in addition to ensuring the patient perspective is represented. Further information about the theme partnership with Myeloma UK is available .The NIHR HIC Myeloma theme team will develop a research database of in effect anonymised real world data to be used a a resource by approved researchers, academic and medical professional working within the myeloma community for the benefit of patient living with myeloma in the UK. Full ethical approval ha been awarded a part of the project and further information around governance within the NIHR HIC is available . Collaborating centre University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Lead Centre)Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust and Oxford University (Clinical Lead)University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Renal Transplantation Renal Transplantation is the largest of the solid organ transplant programme with around 3,000 performed annually in the United Kingdom. It is the optimal treatment for patient with end stage kidney disease in term of survival, quality of life and economic advantages. The limited lifespan of the transplanted kidney mean that multiple transplant are often required which place a burden on patient and restricts the availability of organ for all suitable recipients. A kidney transplant offer the best treatment for patient with kidney failure, offering better quality of life and survival over long term dialysis, a well a being more economical in the long term. In the United Kingdom, kidney transplantation is the largest of the solid organ transplantation programmes. with over 3000 being performed per year. A number of barrier to success still remain. Firstly, the number of patient on the waiting list exceeds the number of available organs, leading to strategy to increase organ availability, including widening of criterion for suitable donor and better organ preservation. Unfortunately, a transplanted kidney also ha a limited lifespan, with an average life of somewhere between 15-20 year depending on whether the donor wa living or deceased. This result in many, particularly younger patients, requiring multiple transplant throughout their life. This is complicated by the fact that it becomes increasing harder to find a match once patient have had a previous transplant. Recipients of solid organ transplant are also required to take anti-rejection medication for the life of the transplant but this ha it own issues, resulting in increased rate of infection and cancer a well a other drug specific side effects. At present monitoring of the transplanted kidney relies on non-specific measure of kidney function with little detailed information to help guide clinician a to how much anti-rejection medication a particular individual needs, resulting in a reactive rather than proactive approach. The outcome following a kidney transplant is determined by a complex interplay between a number of factors. It is therefore an area ripe for a more personalised approach in term of treatment.In order to better understand the role of specific factor in outcome and carry out translational research in this population, it is important to have high quality clinical data from kidney transplant recipients. As well a allowing research, information on outcome will also allow clinician to better inform of patient undergoing transplantation The NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative (HIC) Transplantation Theme is led by the Comprehensive Biomedical Research Centre at Guys and St Thomas NHS Trust and Kings College, London. The other BRCs currently taking part are: Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust and Cambridge UniversityOxford University Hospitals NHS Trust and Oxford UniversityImperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial College, London. Together a database of nearly 8000 recipient transplanted at these centre since 2010 ha been created. Involvement from other renal transplant centre would be welcomed. Exemplar Project In order to demonstrate the utility of the dataset, an exemplar project to determine the incidence and factor contributing to the development of glomerulonephritis in transplanted kidney is being carried out. This project specifically make use of the collaboration and large dataset given the incidence of a specific glomerulonephritis is relatively low. Preliminary result were presented at the American Society of Transplantation Annual Congress in Seattle in June 2018. The ongoing plan is to develop further project using the dataset allowing further enrichment of the dataset. Further information If you would like further information please contact u by email at . For further information on renal transplantation and related research, you may find the following link useful: Lead centre: Guys & St Thomas Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Transfusion Dependent Anaemias In the UK, there are approximately 14,000 patient with sickle cell disease (SCD),1,000 patient with thalassaemia (THAL) and2,000patients withmyelodysplasia (MDS). Many of these patient depend on regular treatment by blood transfusion to prevent a decline in their health or quality of life, although the extent of the dependence varies between individuals. Many other cohort of patient are intermittently dependent on transfusion e.g. during a period ofmyeloablativechemotherapy.Thehealth of many of these patient depends on access to and the need for blood transfusion, delivered in an emergency or a part of a long-term transfusion programme.Formation of antibodies(alloimmunisation)following blood transfusion is common and severe transfusion reaction can be life-threatening.At present, no real world data are collated on the complex and costly treatment pathway fortransfusion dependent anaemias, including on transfusion requirements, optimal blood matching algorithms, clinical practice, and complications. Aims of the NIHR HIC The project aim to extract dataon transfusion dependent patientsfrom existing electronic data source in the Englands major transfusion centres. In the first instance, the project will collate data from NIHR HIC trust to populate a data repository and to demonstrate the utility of such data collation for addressing the biological, clinical and economic challenge outlined above. Collaborating Centres University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Lead Centre) Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Viral Hepatitis and Liver Disease Hepatitis is commonly caused by viral infection that cause inflammation or swelling of the liver. There are four virus that commonly infect the liver; hepatitis A, B, C and E. Hepatitis D is also well recognised, but only occurs in people that are already infected with hepatitis B. Hepatitis A and E typically cause acute (short-term) infection and although patient are often unwell at the time, these virus do not generally persist long-term. In contrast both hepatitis B and C may cause a silent infection for many years, and are often only diagnosed once liver disease is well advanced. This NIHR HIC theme is focusing on hepatitis B/D, C, and E. Each of these infection brings different challenge to clinician and researcher in the UK. The epidemiology and risk factor for hepatitis E are very poorly understood in the UK. For hepatitis B the key question are the factor that predict response to drug treatment, and the role of hepatitis D co-infection. For hepatitis C, treatment ha recently undergone a revolution, with many new and effective but expensive drug available to treat patients. Even so, some patient with hepatitis C fail to respond to the newest drugs, and in this theme we will collect data on the outcome of treatment in these patients. The NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme ha developed a database of anonymised clinical data: to address important question related to clinical outcome in viral hepatitis to share clinical data to demonstrate it usefulness in clinical research The database ha been fully reviewed by the National Research Ethics Service. Further Information Lead centre Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust NamePositionOrganisationEllie BarnesChief InvestigatorOxford University HospitalsPhilippa MatthewsClinical co-LeadThe Crick, UCL and Oxford UniversityWillian GelsonLocal InvestigatorCambridge University HospitalsGraham CookeLocal InvestigatorImperial College HealthcareStephen RyderLocal InvestigatorNottingham University HospitalsAlexander StockdaleLocal InvestigatorRoyal Liverpool and Broadgreen University HospitalsEleni NastouliLocal InvestigatorUniversity College London HospitalsAhmed ElsharkawyLocal InvestigatorUniversity Hospitals BirminghamSalim KhakooLocal InvestigatorUniversity Hospital Southampton William BernalLocal InvestigatorKings College HospitalNicholas EasomLocal InvestigatorHull University Teaching Hospitals NHS TrustTingyan WangData AnalystOxford University Hospitals and Oxford University For research query please contact Professor Ellie Barnes via Publications Electronic Health Informatics Data To Describe Clearance Dynamics of Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg) and e Antigen (HBeAg) in Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection available on the This study on HBsAg and HBeAg clearance dynamic demonstrated that these marker may contribute to prognostication and patient-stratified care, and provide a foundation for advancing insight into mechanism of disease control. Bimodal distribution and set point HBV DNA viral load in chronic infection: retrospective analysis of cohort from the UK and South Africa available on This study show a bimodal viral load distribution in chronic HBV infection, unlike the skewed normal distribution seen in chronic HCV and HIV infection, and provides evidence of a virological set point in untreated patients. National Institute for Health Research Health Informatics Collaborative: development of a pipeline to collate electronic clinical data for viral hepatitis research. An overview of the paper can be foundon the; full paper can be found on the. This paper present a comprehensive methodology for the development and validation of a new data collection and management pipeline, and demonstrates that routinely collected clinical data captured in electronic patient record (EPR) system across multiple site can be collated, integrated, and made available for translational research. Longitudinal Analysis of the Utility of Liver Biochemistry a Prognostic Markers in Hospitalized Patients With Corona Virus Disease 2019 available at This study report liver biochemistry is commonly deranged in hospitalised patient with COVID-19 in a UK population and show that baseline hypoalbuminemia and rising ALP over time could be prognostic marker for death, with comparison to a matched group without COVID-19. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) viral load, liver and renal function in adult treated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) vs. untreated: a retrospective longitudinal UK cohort studyavailable at In a comparison of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF)-treated vs. untreated patients, this study reported variable ethnicity distribution across the two groups, and some evidence for liver fibrosis progression in the untreated group, which warrant a need for further evidence for expanded treatment. Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on routine surveillance for adult with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in the UK available at. This study investigated service disruption on routine surveillance of hepatitis B patient during COVID-19 pandemic, revealing that reduction in rate of surveillance closely track COVID-19 incidence and period of population lock-down. Cohort Profile: National Institute for Health Research Health Informatics Collaborative: Hepatitis B Virus (NIHR HIC HBV) Research Dataset available at This profile for the first time present a national multi-site large HBV cohort of >6000 individual with diverse ethnicity using routinely collected clinical data from secondary care in the UK, and a large majority of patient in the cohort had longitudinal measurement of relevant laboratory parameters, providing promising opportunity for translational research. Patient Biochemistry and Treatment Need in Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection Across Three Continents: Retrospective Cross-Sectional Cohort Studies available at Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Publications Cardiovascular 23 November 2019 Troponin level, age and mortality risk in an unselected population of over 250000 patient TROP-RISK study. An overview of the study can be foundon the ; the full paper can be found on the. 26 March 2020 Prognostic significance of troponin level in 3121 patient presenting with atrial fibrillation (The NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative TROP-AF study) is available on the . 27 August 2020 Invasive versus non-invasive management of elderly patient with non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (SENIOR-NSTEMI): a cohort study based on routine clinical data is available onwebsite. An overview of the paper titledAge no criterion for decision on heart attack treatment can be foundon the . 22 February 2022 Mortality risk prediction of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein in suspected acute coronary syndrome: A cohort study can be found in . 09 March 2022 Prognostic Significance of Ventricular Arrhythmias in 13444 Patients With Acute Coronary Syndrome: A Retrospective Cohort Study Based on Routine Clinical Data (NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative VAACS Study) can be found in the. 26 April 2022 Implications of elevated troponin on time-to-surgery in non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative: TROP-CABG study) is available on the Colorectal Cancer 14 July 2022 Establishing a colorectal cancer research database from routinely collected health data: the process and potential from a pilot study is available at Critical Care 21 December 2017 Critical care data processing tool available on the . 1 January 2018 Electronic Health Record Research in Critical Care: The End of the Randomized Controlled Trial? This paper can be found in the .31 January 2018 Critical Care Health Informatics Collaborative (CCHIC): Data, tool and method for reproducible research: A multi-centre UK intensive care database available in the .14 November 2018 Optimal intensive care outcome prediction over time using machine learning available on the .12 September 2019 The Association between Supraphysiologic Arterial Oxygen Levels and Mortality in Critically Ill Patients.A Multicenter Observational Cohort Studyavailable on the . 01 July 2021 Descriptors of Sepsis Using the Sepsis-3 Criteria A Cohort Study in Critical Care Units Within the U.K. National Institute for Health Research Critical Care Health Informatics Collaborative available on the Infectious Diseases 20 November 2019Evaluating a digital sepsis alert in a London multisite hospital network: a natural experiment using electronic health record data available on the . Renal Disease 1 February 2018 Long and shortterm outcome in renal allograft with deceased donors: A large recipient and donor genomewide association study available in the . 22 July 2022 Incidence, Risk Factors, and Effect on Allograft Survival of Glomerulonephritis Post-transplantation in a United Kingdom Population: Cohort Studyavailable at. Viral Hepatitis 25 June 2019 Electronic Health Informatics Data To Describe Clearance Dynamics of Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg) and e Antigen (HBeAg) in Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection available on the 14 October 2020 Bimodal distribution and set point HBV DNA viral load in chronic infection: retrospective analysis of cohort from the UK and South Africa available on 19 November 2020 National Institute for Health Research Health Informatics Collaborative: development of a pipeline to collate electronic clinical data for viral hepatitis research. An overview of the paper can be foundon the ; full paper can be found on the. 30 April 2021 Longitudinal Analysis of the Utility of Liver Biochemistry a Prognostic Markers in Hospitalized Patients With Corona Virus Disease 2019 available at 26 June 2021 Hepatitis B virus (HBV) viral load, liver and renal function in adult treated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) vs. untreated: a retrospective longitudinal UK cohort studyavailable at 11 February 2022 Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on routine surveillance for adult with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in the UK available at. 16 June 2022 Cohort Profile: National Institute for Health Research Health Informatics Collaborative: Hepatitis B Virus (NIHR HIC HBV) Research Dataset available at 11 July 2023 Patient Biochemistry and Treatment Need in Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection Across Three Continents: Retrospective Cross-Sectional Cohort Studies available at Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Engagement Public Involvement The NIHR defines public involvement in research a research being carried out with or by member of the public rather than to, about or for them. Examples of public and patient involvement activity include working with researcher to develop or comment on research materials, providing advice a member of a project steering group, and undertaking element of research e.g. conducting interview with participants. Public Engagement The NIHR defines public engagement a where information and knowledge about research is provided and disseminated. Examples of public engagement activity include disseminating the finding of a study to research participants, colleague or member of the public, raising awareness of research through medium such a television programmes, newspaper and social medium and open day at research centre where member of the public are invited to find out about research. How you can get involved The NIHR is keen for patient and the public to be actively involved in the work they support a key partner in the research. If you would like to get involved with research you can get more information from the NIHR by visiting or you can contact your local . Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Contact Us General contact If you have any question about the NIHR HIC, please contact u at . Theme specific contact If you are interested in one of the NIHR HIC research themes, contact detail are shown below: Theme Theme representative Contact Details Cardiovascular Dr Jamil Mayet Critical Care Prof Mervyn Singer Ovarian Cancer Dr James Brenton Renal Transplantation Dr Paramit Chowdhury Viral Hepatitis Prof Ellie Barnes Lung Cancer Prof Mike SecklProf Martin Foster/ Prof Neal Navani Prostate Cancer Dr Mieke Van HemelrijckDr Navin Ramachandran Breast Cancer Prof Elinor Sawyer Colorectal Cancer Mr Chris Cunningham Infectious Diseases Prof Graham Cooke Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme collaboration on a new paper in Infectious Diseases and Therapy. We are pleased to announce that thePatient Biochemistry and Treatment Need in Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection Across Three Continents: Retrospective Cross-Sectional Cohort Studies paper is now available at Leave a Reply You must be to post a comment. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes poster for EASL Congress 2023. We are pleased to announce that the NIHR HICViral HepatitisTheme ha published a new poster titledDistinct virologic trajectory in chronic hepatitis B patient identify heterogeneity in response to nucleotide analogue therapy which is available at. Leave a Reply You must be to post a comment. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research NIHR HIC Renal Transplantation Theme publishes paper in Frontiers in Nephrology. We are pleased to announce that the NIHR HICRenal TransplantationTheme ha published a new paper titledIncidence, Risk Factors, and Effect on Allograft Survival of Glomerulonephritis Post-transplantation in a United Kingdom Population: Cohort Studywhich is available at. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Theme publishes paper in the International Journal of Cardiology We are pleased to announce that the NIHR HIC Cardiovascular Theme ha published a new paper titledImplications of elevated troponin on time-to-surgery in non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative: TROP-CABG study)which is available at. Leave a Reply You must be to post a comment. Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research Viral Hepatitis Theme selected a poster prize winner at the FIS Conference The Viral Hepatitis Theme won a poster prize for the NIHR HIC HBV cohort profile that wa submitted at The Federation of Infection Societies (FIS) Conference 2021. The abstract is available on the conference website () and the poster is publicly accessible via . Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research NIHR HIC Critical Care Theme published paper in Critical Care Medicine We are pleased to announce that the NIHR HICCritical CareTheme ha published a new paper titledDescriptors of Sepsis Using the Sepsis-3 Criteria A Cohort Study in Critical Care Units Within the U.K. National Institute for Health Research Critical Care Health Informatics Collaborativewhich is available at Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet. National Institute for Health Research NIHR HIC Viral Hepatitis Theme publishes new paper in BMC Infectious Diseases We are pleased to announce that theNIHR HICViral HepatitisTheme ha published it fifth paper, titledHepatitis B virus (HBV) viral load, liver and renal function in adult treated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) vs. untreated: a retrospective longitudinal UK cohort studywhich is available at NIHR Oxford BRC news story can be found Search for: News 19 February 2024 11 July 2023 23 June 2023 6 February 2023 2 December 2022 Tools WordPress Theme: Dynamic News by ThemeZee. We use cooky on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preference and repeat visits. By clicking Accept All, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cooky ensure basic functionality and security feature of the website, anonymously. CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cooky in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cooky is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cooky in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user ha consented to the use of cookies. It doe not store any personal data. Functional Functional cooky help to perform certain functionality like sharing the content of the website on social medium platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance cooky are used to understand and analyze the key performance index of the website which help in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytical cooky are used to understand how visitor interact with the website. These cooky help provide information on metric the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement cooky are used to provide visitor with relevant ad and marketing campaigns. These cooky track visitor across website and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Other uncategorized cooky are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category a yet.