The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (or OHDSI, pronounced "Odyssey") program is a multi-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative to bring out the value of health data through large-scale analytics. All our solution are open-source. Vision: A world in which observational research produce a comprehensive understanding of health and disease. Mission: To improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. OHDSI is a global, open-science community that is committed to generating real-world evidence to both support clinical decision-making and advance the methodology within this field. We have collaborated on many network study across our community. Software tool Book of OHDSI Welcome to OHDSI! The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (or OHDSI, pronounced "Odyssey") program is amulti-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative to bring out the value of health data through large-scale analytics. All our solution are open-source. OHDSI ha established an international network of researcher and observational health database with a central coordinating center housed at Columbia University. Read more , about, and how you can . Join Us At The 2024 Global Symposium Registration is now open for the 2024 Global Symposium, which will be held October 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. Check out the event page for detail on the collaborator showcase, tutorial offerings, workshop activities, and more! What OHDSI Is All About OHDSIs MissionTo improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Latest News 2024 powered by Top | | | Welcome to OHDSI! The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (or OHDSI, pronounced "Odyssey") program is amulti-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative to bring out the value of health data through large-scale analytics. All our solution are open-source. OHDSI ha established an international network of researcher and observational health database with a central coordinating center housed at Columbia University. Read more , about, and how you can . Join Us At The 2024 Global Symposium Registration is now open for the 2024 Global Symposium, which will be held October 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. Check out the event page for detail on the collaborator showcase, tutorial offerings, workshop activities, and more! What OHDSI Is All About OHDSIs MissionTo improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Latest News 2024 powered by Top | | | Mission, Vision & Values Mission, Vision & Values Our Mission To improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Our Vision A world in which observational research produce a comprehensive understanding of health and disease. Our Values Innovation: Observational research is a field which will benefit greatly from disruptive thinking. We actively seek and encourage fresh methodological approach in our work. Reproducibility: Accurate, reproducible, and well-calibrated evidence is necessary for health improvement. Community: Everyone is welcome to actively participate in OHDSI, whether you are a patient, a health professional, a researcher, or someone who simply belief in our cause. Collaboration: We work collectively to prioritize and address the real world need of our community participants. Openness: We strive to make all our community proceeds open and publicly accessible, including the methods, tool and the evidence that we generate. Beneficence: We seek to protect the right of individual and organization within our community at all times. 2024 powered by Top | | | Areas of Focus Areas of Focus Data standardization If we want to achieve quality, efficiency, and transparency of observational research, we need to standardize the structure, content, and analytics in such a way that they can optimally support our specific use cases. We have adopted the (CDM) a a platform for doing that. We are also developing special open-source tool and process to help you implement the OMOP CDM and the associated standardized analytics tool within your institutions. Medical product safety surveillance Mankind ought to have a way to know and evaluate potential association between the exposure to any medical product and all it adverse effects. We want to address this gap by establishing an international risk identification and analysis system available to the public. It will enable proactive detection of potential drug effects. To that end, we are currently developing large-scale analytics that allow for the real-time exploration of all medical product and all health outcome of interest. We are also establishing an open-source evidence repository so that anybody or any organization with observational data who wish to contribute to that objective can produce (using our open-source tools) and share their evidence, so we can all learn from each other. Comparative effectiveness research Similarly, the public also deserves to understand alternative treatment and to be able to make direct comparison between the effectiveness of those alternatives. We are developing open-source tool to generate this evidence from observational health data. Unlike our safety surveillance tools, which seek to address the question, Does this medical product cause that outcome?, our CER tool seek to answer, Does this medical product cause the outcome more or le than alternative product I could consider for the same purpose?. Personalized risk prediction Patient-level predictive modeling can complement population-level estimation, to go beyond answering societal and policy question about average treatment effect to deliver individualized insight about your personalized future risk of experiencing an outcome given what we know about you in the past: your specific demographics, your medical history and your prior health behaviors. We are developing advanced algorithm to be able to produce these personalized estimates, and are delivering tool to communicate this risk information directly to patients. Data characterization To learn from observational health data and generate reliable and transparent real-world evidence, we must understand the underlying source data. Much of our research involves analysis of data that were captured for purpose other than research insurance claim are financial transaction data to support the provider-payer reimbursement process, electronic health record are system to support provider in their clinical care. Therefore, it is critically important to understand where the data come from and why, to help interpret what it all means. We are developing tool for data quality assessment and database profiling so that you can know when a database can and cannot be used, and what data issue require consideration in any analysis. Quality improvement Health system continuously seek to improve the quality of care provided to their patients. We are developing open-source tool to make that job easier through the systematic application of quality measure within observational data in the OMOP common data model. We are supporting these effort through the design, development, and evaluation of new empirical-evidence-based quality measures. 2024 powered by Top | | | Who We Serve Who We Serve Our work benefit a range of individual and organizations, including patients, providers, and researchers, a well a health care systems, industry, and government agencies. This benefit is achieved by improving both the quality of healthcare data analytics a well a the usefulness of healthcare data to these stakeholders. Data Holders There are many organization that are trying to learn from observational health data: Health system like hospital and doctor office have electronic health record that provide clinical care for their patient Insurance company have claim data that can tell them about their beneficiary Pharmaceutical company and academic institution conduct registry in which they are collecting non-interventional data Public health department have community data Medical start-ups may have data collected from innovative application In our research community, we use the term data holder in a broad sense, referring to any organization that ha data it would like to standardize, analyze, visualize, or in other way benefit from the OHDSI framework and community. The key thing is that youve got (or are planning to create) a healthcare dataset and would like to get more value out of it. We at OHDSI are serving all of these data holder by building tool and establishing process to help standardize and analyze data in a higher quality and more efficient way. If you are a data holder and are interested in collaborative research and would like to participate in establishing and applying scientific best practice in your research you are invited to join the OHDSI collaborative and conduct analysis on your own data or across the OHDSI data network. Researchers Researchers from many different discipline epidemiologists, statisticians, biomedical informaticists, computer scientists, and clinician are trying to generate evidence from observational health data. As a community, we still have a lot of work to do in order to generate such evidence in a fast and reliable manner. One of the biggest limiting step is that many researcher do not have the opportunity to easily work together across disciplines. In addition, they may lack the fund or access to data to answer the question that they are interested in. We at OHDSI provide a forum for researcher to work together on problem of shared interest. We currently have over 140 researcher from across the globe who are connecting a part of an international network and sharing research ideas. If you are a researcher interested in developing and evaluating new strategy for how to generate evidence from observational data, then consider this a warm invitation to join u at OHDSI. Health Care Providers Medical decision-making is difficult. Patients and provider alike are often challenged with trying to keep up with the latest information about all of the alternative treatments, and there is increasing pressure to learn from the real world experience of patient to inform best clinical practice. We at OHDSI are working on a platform to generate real-world evidence that can be actionable both for health system at a population level a well a individualized at the patient level. Patients & Consumers At some point in life we all become patients, and high-quality medical care is one of the most generic need of mankind. Such care must be based on all the quantitative and hard evidence available about treatment options. Today, not a lot of evidence is available to patient directly, and it is usually limited to describing the effect of treatment on a population. For example, we may be able to answer broad question at a population level like, Does Drug A cause bleeding? What if we could address that question at the patient level: What is the likelihood that Drug A will cause me to bleed? based on available known factor like medical history and health behaviors? There isnt an established way to generate this kind of evidence reliably. So, we at OHDSI are looking to solve this problem and produce the individualized real-world evidence that any patient can use to get informed about his or her own medical situation. 2024 powered by Top | | | Collaborators Collaborators Name Title Organization Research Scientist Real World Evidence Global Patient Outcome Real World Evidence (GPORWE), Business Technology Associate Consultant Assistant Professor, Department of Nursing Senior Pharmacoepidemiologist Global Patient Safety, Medical Data Analyst Fatemah Alnofal Health Informatics Research Specialist Advisor to the Vice President for Drug Affairs Dr. Thamer Alshammary Advisor, Saudi food and Drug Authority Executive President Section Head, Information Technology Management Section, Research Management Division National Cancer Hospital East Analyst Programmer/PhD Candidate; Institute for Computational Biology Head of Open Innov. Public Priv. Partnerships Bayer AG Manager, Clinical Informatics Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Assistant Professor of Computer Science Technical Lead and Project Manager Project Manager Data Modeler/Knowledge Manager Tomas Bergvall, PhD Data scientist Vice President and Global Head, Epidemiology Dr. Nasser BinDhim Executive Director of the Research Center and Consulting Studies Manager, Epidemiology Analytics Professor of Statistics and Computer Science Senior Researcher Assistant Professor, Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology & Informatics KI Research Institute Executive Director Assistant Professor of Biomedical Informatics Executive Director, Center for Observational Research Observational Research Senior Manager Senior Information Analyst Medical Student Researcher, Department of Biomedical Informatics Priscilla Chan and Mark Zuckerberg Distinguished Professor of Pediatrics, Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, and Epidemiology and Biostatistics at UCSF UCSF Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Department of Biomedical Informatics OMOP Database Specialist Assistant Professor Data Analyst, Research Center of Data Science on Healthcare Industry Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Professor, Department of Digital Health, Department of Gastroenterology NLM Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor of Biostatistics Data Analyst, Research Center of Data Science on Healthcare Industry Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Data Analyst Graduate Student, Department of Biomedical Informatics PhD Student, Department of Biomedical Informatics PhD Student, Department of Biomedical Informatics Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics Director, Real World Data Director of Data and Analytics University of California, Health President Board Member Global Value Web Architect Technical Team Lead Odysseus Data Services Director, Epidemiology Analytics Lead Health Data Scientist, Botnar Research Centre Founder & Principal SDempsterConsulting LLC Lead Scientist, Department of Big Data and Personalized Surgery (DPS) Biomedical Informatics Product Manager Scientific Programmer Associate Director, Data Management Vlassios Dimitriadis Research Scientist Consultant Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Former: Data & Informatics Scientist, Department Head, Department of Big Data & Personalized Surgery (DPS) Epidemiologist Institut Universitari dInvestigaci en Atenci Primria (IDIAPJGol; Primary Care Research Institute Jordi Gol) Director, Center for Health Analytics and Informatics Associate Professor of Medicine (Biomedical Informatics) Chief Statistical Scientist Research Scientist Lead Software Developer Associate Director, VA Informatics and Computing Infrastructure Associate Director Associate Professor of Biomedical Informatics Team Manager Software Develop/Founder Owner Data Analyst PhD Student in Biomedical Informatics Kristina Fiter University of Zagreb School of Medicine Manager Observational Health Data Analytics Alex Franken Systems Engineer, Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor, Biomedical Informatics Center Professor and Graduate Program Director Associate Professor,Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy and Institute for Health, Health Care Policy & Aging Research Schlumberger Centennial Chaired Professor, Dept of Electrical and Computer Engineering Manager in Epidemiology Analytics President and Founder Professor, Director Researcher, Consultant, Developer Semantic Network Visualization for Health Data Analytics VP, Global Head of Data Science / Professor of the Practice & Director of Clinical Research at the OHDSI Center Odysseus Data Services, Inc. / Northeastern University Michael Goodman Systems Area Land, Safety Informatics Shaun Grannis, MD Research Scientist Senior Research Informaticist Northwestern University Manager, Observational Health Data Analytics Janssen Research & Development Senior Software Developer Department of Performance Measurement at Executive Director, Epidemiology Software Engineer/Research Analyst, Department of Biomedical Informatics Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics Epidemiology Senior Research Scientist Professor and Eminent Scholar, Perry A. Foote Chair in Health Outcomes and Pharmacoeconomics Associate Professor Manager, Oncology Epidemiology Systems Engineer, Biomedical Informatics Professor, Innovation & Research Support Center International University of Health and Welfare PhD Candidate Postdoctoral researcher, Department of Biostatistics Director of the Biomedical Informatics Program; Professor, Department of Health Outcomes and Policy Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor and Chair of Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor, International PhD Program in Biotech and Healthcare Management, College of Management Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Professor and Director, Graduate Institute of Date Science; Director, Office of Data Science Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Program Director, Center for Computational Health Assistant Professor of Biostatistics Staff Scientist, Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications, National Library of Medicine Researcher Ajou University Medical Center IT Architect Director Senior Project Manager & Researcher College of Medical Science & Technology, Senior Software Engineer JSC Research Professor Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University Real World Evidence Lead Global Value Web Specially Appointed Associate Professor Data Engineer PhD Student Director, Real World Data Analytics and Research, Epidemiology & Medical Devices Researcher Technical Lead, SciForce Medical Team SciForce Ukraine Assistant Professor, Faculty of Medicine University of Tsukuba Head, Outcomes Evidence & Analytics Professor, Section of Pediatric Epidemiology Krishna Kalluri Software Developer, Department of Biomedical Informatics CEO Ph.D. Student, Department of Biomedical Informatics Chief Medical Officer, Intelligent Medical Objects; Assistant Professor of Clinical Biomedical Informatics and Clinical Epidemiology Director, Epidemiology Graduate Student; Department of Biomedical Informatics PhD Student; Department of Biomedical Informatics Researcher Associate Professor, Division of Clinical Health Systems & Analytics School of Nursing, Ph.D. Candidate Assistant Professor of Medicine, Biostatistics, and Biomedical Informatics and Data Science Yale University Researcher Software Developer, Department of Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery College of Medicine, Chief Technology Officer Manager, Epidemiology Analytics Decision Analytics Consultant Project Professor, Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo Independent Consultant, SciForce Medical Team SciForce Ukraine Associate Director, OMOP Data Network Americas Formerly: Adjunct Associate Professor of Neurology Harold H. Hines, Jr. Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology and Public Health Yale University Network of Excellence Lead Global Value Web Postdoctoral Research Scientist, Department of Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor Versus Arthritis Clinical Research Fellow in Orthopaedic Surgery, NDORMS Data Architect Assistant Director PhD Student Researcher, Department of Statistics and Biomedical Informatics Jianwei Chris Leng Computer and Information Research Scientist PhD Student Professor and Dean, College of Medicine Science and Technology (CoMST) Associate Professor Associate Research Scientist Zhiwen Liu, PhD Director, Real World Evidence Analytics CoE Boehringer Ingelheim Assistant Professor of Medicine, Epidemiology, and Biomedical Informatics and Data Science Yale University Director Real World Evidence Principal Architect Elizabeth Lynn, PhD Head of Scientific and Educational Development Data Scientist, IQVIA Visiting Fellow, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo Director, Real World Evidence Janssen Latin America Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Northeastern University Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics Associate Director of Clinical Analytics Linguamatics Manager, Epidemiology Analytics Assistant Professor of Medicine Panagiotis Mavros Aurelien Mazurie, PhD Director, Bioinformatics Core; Research Assistant Professor, Microbiology Assistant Professor PhD Candidate Assistant Professor, Department of Preventive Medicine Vinay Mehta Postdoctoral Scholar, Department of Biomedical Data Science Analyst Programmer General Internist, OBrien School for Public Health University of Calgary Parsa Mirhaji, MD, PhD Research Associate Professor, Department of Systems & Computational Biology; Director of Clinical Research Informatics at Einstein and Montefiore Medical Center Managing AP Architect FUJITSU Data Scientist and Software Developer Manager of Epidemiology Analytics Professor of Biomedical Informatics Okayama University Director, Data Sciences Janssen Pharmaceutical (Japan), Research & Development Scientific Programmer Director and Professor, Medical Information Center Kyushu University Hospital, Japan Assistant Professor Postdoctoral Fellow University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center Pantelis Natsiavas Research Scientist Research Staff Member, Center for Computational Health; Manager, Health Analytics Research Postdoctoral Fellow, Graduate Institute of Data Science, College of Management Taipei Medical University, Taiwan David Nimke Associate Director, Epidemiology Post-doctoral researcher, Department of Biomathematics G. Niklas Norn, PhD Chief Science Officer Thomas Nyberg, PhD Post-doctoral Fellow Co-Director, Biomedical Informatics Center a Professor, Department of Biomedical Informatics, Health Innovation Big data Center Don OHara Private Contributor Epidemiologist Research Instructor Senior Director Product Innovation PhD Student, Biomedical Informatics Chief Medical Informatics Officer PhD of Traditional Chinese Medicine; Research fellow Software Developer, Department of Biomedical Informatics Ajou University School of Medicine Ph.D student/Researcher/Digital Healthcare Laboratory(DHLab), Biomedical Systems Informatics Yonsei University College of Medicine Research Assistant Professor Director, Professor, Department of Biomedical Informatics Graduate Student, Dept. of Biomedical Informatics Professor, Health Innovation Bigdata Center IT Director, Clinical Trial Center Solution Delivery Consultant Lead Data Scientist University of California, Health Clinical Research Software Developer Columbia University Department of Biomedical Informatics Founding Director, Robert J. Terry Professor Lead Scientist Director, Value Evidence and Outcomes Senior Consultant, Technology Senior Business & Data Analyst MBA, FISQua, Ph.D. student, International PhD Program in Biotech and Healthcare Management Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Signal Management Lead European Medicines Agency Associate Director, Biomedical Informatics and Regulatory Review Science Senior Clinical Data Scientist Research Scientist Senior Research Fellow Professor of Pharmaco- and Device Epidemiology Senior Director Johnson & Johnson Assistant Director, PEDSnet Data Coordinating Center Technical Manager PhD Student /Leiden University Medical Center CEO Odysseus Data Services, Inc. President & General Manager, Evalytica Manager, Epidemiology Analytics Professor of Medical Informatics and Chair of the Department of Medical Informatics Assistant Professor, Biomedical Informatics Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine Professor of Medicine and Public Health Yale University Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and Computer Engineering Research Instructor, Data Science to Patient Value Vice President, Observational Health Data Analytics Director of Communications Columbia DBMI/OHDSI MPh.D. student, International PhD Program in Biotech and Healthcare Management Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Research Scientist Institute for Computational Biology, Research Associate, Dept of Medical Electronic Intelligence Management Juntendo University School of Medicine Brian Sauer, PhD Assistant Professor, Division of Epidemiology School of Medicine Professor of Medicine Research Fellow, Epidemiology Analytics Director of Data Science, OMOP Chair of Medical Informatics, Institute of Medical Informatics and Biometry; Director of the Center for Medical Informatics Dresden University of Technology VP & GM Associate Director of Epidemiology Analytics MD/PhD Candidate, Department of Biomathematics Associate Professor of Medicine, Biomedical Informatics Research Post Doctoral Fellow Saad Shakir, MD Director Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology (in Biomedical Informatics) Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Biomedical Informatics Itzik Shmaayahoo, MD Graduate Student Research Instructor Manager, Research Informatics Services Weill Cornell Medicine Associate Consultant Assistant Professor, Computer Science & Data Science Master Student, International Program in Graduate Institute of Data Science Taipei Medical University, Taiwan Postdoctoral Scientist Vice President, Global R&D Epidemiology IT Director Director Biostatistical Programming Professor, Department of Biomathematics, David Geffen School of Medicine Assistant Scientist, Department of Biostatistics and Biomedical Informatics School of Medicine and Public Health, Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics Safety Data Mining Developer and Medical Informatics Analyst Team Lead, SciForce Medical Team SciForce Ukraine OMOP Consultant, Project Associate Assistant Professor Scientific Officer Research Scientist MD/PhD Candidate, Department of Biomathematics Consultant Assistant Professor in Pharmacology Data Scientist, Ontology Engineer, SciForce Medical Team SciForce Ukraine Managing Director Founder Johan van der Lei, MD Professor and Head, Department of Medical Informatics Assistant Professor, Department of Medical Informatics Clinical Informatician Director Product Development Clinical Data Scientist University of California, San Francisco Vice President, Value Institute / Assistant Professor of Clinical Biomedical Informatics Technical Lead Santiago Vilar, PhD Research Scientist Senior Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Global Epidemiology Organization SVP Yuimedi Chief Medical Officer Magnus Wallberg Technology Evangelist, PDQ Associate Director, Observational Health Data Analytics Asssociate Professor of Biostatistics Chen Wen Systems Engineer, Biomedical Informatics Professor, Biomedical Informatics Professor of Medicine, Epidemiology and Biostatistics; Director of Cardiac Rehabilitation ; San Francisco VA Health Care System Sr. Solutions Architect for Academic Medical Centers Medical Informatics Director Faculty ,Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies Scientific Researcher Vice President, Global Pharmacovigilance Professor and Head, Department of Pharmacology & Pharmacy Robert H. Graham Professor in Entrepreneurial Biomedical Informatics and Bioengineering Senior Researcher KI Research Institute PhD student, Department of Biomedical Informatics Medical Doctor, Department of Biomedical Informatics Professor Department of Quantitative Health Sciences Sr. Director, Epidemiology Zuoyi Zhang, MS Biostatistician, Biomedical Informatics Assistant Professor 2024 powered by Top | | | The Titan Awards To recognize OHDSI collaborator (or collaborating institutions) for their contribution towards OHDSIs mission, the OHDSI Titan Awards were introduced at the 2018 Symposium and have been handed out at the U.S./Global Symposium each year since.Annually, community member are invited to nominate individual or institution they feel have made significant contribution towards advancing . Once nomination are submitted, the OHDSI Titan Award Committee selects the award winners, who will be announced and recognized during the closing of the annual global symposium. Titan Award for Data Standards to recognize extraordinary contribution by an individual, organization, or team in development or evaluation in community data standards, including OMOP common data model and standardized vocabularies2023 Gowtham Rao and Azza Shoaibi, Johnson & Johnson2022 Melanie Philofsky, Odysseus Data Services2021 Maxim Moinat, The Hyve/Erasmus University Medical Center2020 Clair Blacketer, Janssen Research and Development2019 Oncology Workgroup (Michael Gurley, Northwestern Univ.; Rimma Belenkaya, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;Robert Miller, Tufts CTSI)2018 Vocabulary team (Christian Reich, IQVIA; Anna Ostropolets, Columbia Univ.; Dmitry Dymshyts, Odysseus Data Services)Titan Award for Methodological Research to recognize extraordinary contribution by an individual, organization, or team in development or evaluation in analytical method for clinical characterization, population-level effect estimation, or patient-level prediction2023 Jiayi (Jessie) Tong, University of Pennsylvania2022 Fan Bu, UCLA2021 Yong Chen, University of Pennsylvania2020 Nicolas Thurin, Universit de Bordeaux2019 Jenna Reps, Janssen Research and Development2018 Martijn Schuemie, Janssen Research and Development; Marc Suchard, University of California, Los AngelesTitan Award for Open-source Development to recognize extraordinary contribution by an individual in design, development, testing, and deployment of open-source software to enable observational analyses2023 Katy Sadowski, Boehringer Ingelheim2022 Egill Fridgeirsson, Erasmus MC/James Gilbert, Janssen Research and Development2021 Adam Black, Odysseus Data Services2020 Anthony Sena, Janssen Research and Development2019 Pavel Grafkin, Odysseus Data Services2018 Christopher Knoll, Janssen Research and DevelopmentTitan Award for Clinical Application to recognize extraordinary contribution by an individual, organization, or team in generating clinical evidence that improves health by informing better health decision and better care2023 Center for Surgical Science (led by Ismail Ggenur)2022 Xintong Li, University of Oxford2021 Asieh Golozar, Odysseus Data Services2020 Jenny Lane, University of Oxford2019 Oxford Study-A-Thon (Dani Prieto-Alhambra, University of Oxford; Edward Burn, University of Oxford; Jamie Weaver, Janssen Research and Development; Ross Williams, Erasmus University Medical Center)2018 Seng Chan You, Ajou UniversityTitan Award for Community Collaboration to recognize an individual for their collaborative spirit in helping their fellow community member reach their goals2023 Cynthia Sung, Bill & Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute2022 Ajit Londhe, Boehringer Ingelheim2021 Erica Voss, Janssen Research and Development2020 Talita Duarte-Salles, IDIAPJGol2019 Andrew Williams, Tufts Medical Center2018 Kristin Kostka, Deloitte; Mui Van Zandt, IQVIATitan Award for Community Leadership to recognize an individual for their leadership in advancing the OHDSI mission2023 Nicole Pratt, University of South Australia2022 Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins University2021 Mui Van Zandt, IQVIA2020 Dani Prieto-Alhambra, University of Oxford2019 Peter Rijnbeek, Erasmus University Medical Center2018 Rae Woong Park, Ajou University School of MedicineTitan Award for Community Support to recognize an individual, team, or organization for their contribution to ensuring the sustainability of the OHDSI community2023 Gyeol Song, IQVIA2022 Craig Sachson, Columbia University2021 Faaizah Arshad, UCLA; Ross Williams, Erasmus University Medical Center2020 COVID-19 Support Team, Erasmus University Medical Center2019 James Wiggins, Amazon Web Services2018 Lee Evans, LTS Computing LLC 2024 powered by Top | | | Regional Chapters Regional Chapters Definition of an OHDSI Chapter An OHDSI chapter represents a group of OHDSI collaborator located in a geographic area who wish to hold local networking event and meeting to address problem specific to their geographic location. Current OHDSI Chapters OHDSI Australia Website: OHDSI Europe Website: OHDSI China Website: Activities: OHDSI Japan Website: OHDSI Korea Website: OHDSI Singapore Website: Coming Soon OHDSI Taiwan Website: OHDSI India Website: Guidelines for starting an OHDSI Chapter Process of becoming an OHDSI Chapter Call a meeting of all collaborator in the area who might be interested in supporting a chapter of OHDSI. Carefully consider the motivation for creating the new chapter and objectively discus whether or not potential change in how existing chapter are managed might accommodate the need expressed by your group. If sufficient interest exists, elect officer who will be responsible for the chapter overall governance, organization, communication, funding and events. Submit a letter of intent to the OHDSI coordinating center. The letter must include a list of all chapter members, the list must include at least 5 OHDSI collaborators. A description outlining the chapter aim and objective All OHDSI Chapters must adhere to the following guidelines: The aim and objective of the chapter must adopt All activities, event and meeting must be inclusive and open to all who wish to participate All material and document must be openly accessible on the internet. If the chapter chooses to maintain a website, that website must include link to All chapter must meet regularly (either in-person or remotely) to discus making progress towards their intended goal All chapter are responsible for their own governance, organization and funding. All chapter are responsible for communicating chapter activity to collaborator located within their geographic region. All chapter must submit an annual report to the OHDSI coordinating center detailing their activity and achievement over the past year. The OHDSI coordinating center reserve the right to disband a chapter if their activity do not align with OHDSIs mission 2024 powered by Top | | | Website Privacy Policy Notice Website Privacy Policy Notice This privacy policy notice discloses the privacy practice for ohdsi.org. This privacy notice applies solely to information collected by this website. You may choose to log into this website using your Google user account which give this website the authority to 1)Authenticate your Google user account using OpenID Connect, 2)View your Google user account basic profile info, 3) View your Google user account email address. This Google user account information is only used to enable website login using your Google user account. This Google user account information is not stored by this website and is not shared with anyone else. We do not collect any personally identifiable information. This website contains link to other sites. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the content or privacy practice of such other sites. We encourage our user to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statement of any other site that collect personally identifiable information. This website us cooky to maintain website metric such a the number of visitors. We keep this privacy policy under review and place any update on this web page. This privacy policy wa last updated on 22nd June 2019. 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI News and Updates OHDSI News and Updates is open for the 10th annual OHDSI Global Symposium, which will be held in person October 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. We are planning another exciting three-day event. On Tuesday, October 22, we will have space for open collaboration for the community a well a multiple tutorials, including an session in the morning and in the afternoon. On Wednesday, October 23, we will host plenaries and our annual collaborator showcase. On Thursday, October 24, the collaborator showcase will continue along with workgroup activity throughout the day. Submissions are being accepted for the 2024 Collaborator Showcase, which will include poster presentations, software demo and lightning talks. We received a record number of submission over each of the last two years, and we are excited to see what the community ha in store this year. All submission are due no later than Friday, June 21, at 8 pm ET. All information about the collaborator showcase, including the submission form, . Please continue to check the event page or join our community call for updated information about OHDSI2024! Montse Camprubi work at Synapse Research Management Partners. She ha wide experience in managing and coordinating complex research project a well a acting a community manager, including the development of internal communication mechanism to promote communication dynamics. Montse is highly skilled in EU funded project with deep knowledge on financing and control resource procedures. Currently the EHDEN community manager, she is leading the central coordination effort between EHDEN Data Partners and certified SMES and EHDEN experts. In the latest edition of , Montse discus her background and career journey, recent highlight and future plan in EHDEN, the upcoming OHDSI Europe Symposium, and plenty more. The will be held Friday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pm in the MS Teams environment. This event serf a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software. The morning will include a series of lightning talk from a developer panel, a well a a full session from Adam Black with development update from the DARWIN EU initiative (see graphic to the right). The afternoon agenda will include a series of update on the OHDSI open-source ecosystem, a well a presentation around a tool for machine learning for healthcare data mapping and management, and knowledge graph using two tool with example application in drug surveillance and computational phenotyping. There will also be update about our current student in the Kheiron Cohort, an update from technology board, and a look at a couple exciting OHDSI sandbox projects. All are welcome to join u for DevCon 2024, especially if you are an open-source contributor (or want to learn more about the process), an open-source user, or a hosting platform. The workgroup is collaborating with other OHDSI leader to lead the Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, a nine-monthprogram designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which focus on the key component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence. The leadership team aim to guide student in the production of multi-institutional network study and help them win future grants. Candidates will be able to leverage the NIH Maternal Health OHDSI Data Partner Network, comprised of seven US-based Academic Medical Centers. Network study led by candidate will be based on this network and be open to any data partner in the OHDSI Evidence Network. This program is designed for early-stage researcher in academic medicine who are focusing their career on creating evidence from real world data in Maternal Health. Candidates will be given preference if their organization participates in the OHDSI data network and/or the NIH Inspire initiative. , and . Melanie Philofsky is a Senior Business & Data Analyst with Odysseus Data Services, Inc. She is responsible for the harmonization of various healthcare data source into the OMOP Common Data Model to support research endeavors. Her area of expertise include clinical informatics, data analysis, data quality, ETL conversions, EHR data, the OMOP CDM and data modeling of new domains. Prior to earning her MS in Healthcare Informatics, she wa an ICU RN. She know and understands the clinical workflow and UI of an EHR system to the backend where data is pulled for transformation to the OMOP CDM. She wa the 2022 Titan Award honoree for Contributions in Data Standards. , Melanie discus her career journey, her work with the Healthcare Systems and Themis workgroups, plan for the April Olympians Collab-a-thon, and more! TheSeminar Series return Wednesday, April 17 (11 am 12 pm ET) a 2021 Titan Award honoreeYong Chenpresents his research onReal-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents: causal inference under misclassification in treatment status. This series is open to anybody:. Overview: The current understanding of long-term effectiveness of the BNT162b2 vaccine across diverse U.S. pediatric population is limited. We assessed the effectiveness of BNT162b2 against various strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus using data from a national collaboration of pediatric health system (PEDSnet). We emulated three target trial to ass the real-world effectiveness of BNT162b during the Delta and Omicron variant periods. In the U.S., immunization record are often captured and stored across multiple disconnected sources, resulting in incomplete vaccination record in patient electronic health record (EHR). We implemented a novel trial emulation pipeline accounting for possible misclassification bias in vaccine documentation in EHRs. The effectiveness of the BNT162b2 vaccine wa estimated from the Poisson regression model with confounders balanced via propensity score stratification. This study suggests BNT162b2 wa effective among child and adolescent in Delta and Omicron period for a range of COVID-19-related outcome and is associated with a lower risk for cardiac complications. As the OHDSI community grows and use of the OMOP CDM expands OMOP currently ha 534 global data source mapped with 956 million unique patient record available for research there is a need for clear, concise and easily accessible documentation on the CDM and THEMIS convention required to properly standardize data This month,Clair BlacketerandMelanie Philofskyare leading a collaborative activity called April Olympians, which will serve to (1) identify all currently ratified CDM and THEMIS convention for every CDM table and field; (2) write clear documentation for each THEMIS convention; (3) establish a repository for THEMIS conventions; (4) update the CDM documentation to link to relevant THEMIS repository entries; and (5) create CDM documentation related to expansion module effort around the community. There is a; if you are interested in joining this effort,. As this collab-a-thon progress through April, the weekly community call will focus on different aspect of the ETL process. From technical consideration and vocabulary to open-source tool and the varying process to ratify new THEMIS convention or create site-specific add-on to the CDM, each community call will feature an information presentation following an April Olympians call update. OHDSI standardized vocabulary allow organization & standardization of medical term to be used across various clinical domain of the OMOP CDM for observational research. Beginning in 2023, the OHDSI vocabulary team make two major release annually, including domain changes, newly added concepts, standard concept changes, change of concept mapping, and more. The most recent release wa shared 29Feb2024, and it included update in 12 groupings, . Alexander Davydov, Oleg Zhuk and Anna Ostropolets each to provide a presentation on the update process, a closer look at some of the specific vocabulary updates, and a look at how the community contribution process provided 11 specific enhancements, with more to come in the August 2024 release. You can check out for more detail on the release. Thank you to all community member on the vocabulary team for all the work you put into this release! Ross Williams is a scientific researcher working in the group of Dr. Peter Rijnbeek at Erasmus MC, where he is part of the. His main focus is creating tool and analysis method to develop personalised medical risk prediction. His specific area of interest are on the external validation of prediction models, net benefit assessment and technique for temporal health data analysis. He co-leads both the Patient Level Prediction workgroup and the Early-Stage Researcher workgroup. A 2021 Titan Award honoree, Ross obtained his PhD at Erasmus University Medical Center (2023) and his MSc (2017) in Data Science from Kings College London. He previously obtained his BSc in Physics and Philosophy from the same institution. Before starting work at Erasmus MC he spent time working on a Marie Curie scholarship on the TRANSACT project under the EU FP7 initiative. Ross discus his career journey, how observational data impact prediction models, the opportunity for junior researcher in OHDSI, and plenty more . Registration ha opened for the fifth European OHDSI Symposium, which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. The symposium, which is entitled Scaling up reliable evidence across Europe, will feature two day of workshop and tutorials, and then the main conference will be held June 3 on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. The symposium is a platform to share result and idea about the use of the OMOP-CDM, tool development, and future research. The day will include a collaborator showcase including poster and podium presentation to highlight OHDSIs research achievements, and interactive demonstration of OHDSIs open-source software tools. The deadline to submit brief report for the collaborator showcase is March 15. During the symposium, there will be update on the exciting work being done all over Europe, including in National Nodes, large European Projects, and other initiatives. There will also be plenty of time for networking. More information and a registration link . Under the leadership ofAzza Shoaibi, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao and James Weaver, Phenotype Phebruary 2024 focus on assessing consistency in phenotype definition components, phenotype representation structure, and phenotype validation methods. The month-long activity empowers OHDSI collaborator to engage with each other while advancing the science of phenotyping and gaining education and training around phenotype development and evaluation. Throughout the month, collaborator will engage in a month-long study focused on assessing consistency in phenotype definition and methods. The goal for this is to evaluate reporting pattern and consistency among reported phenotype algorithm for the same clinical phenotype across observational studies. During the Phenotype Phebruary introductory call, community member voted to focus effort on four specific phenotypes: Alzheimers Disease, lung cancer, major depression disorder, and pulmonary hypertension). Each week, there will be systematic literature search and synthesis, replication using ATLAS and other OHDSI tools, and summarize variation in population characteristic like incidence rates. Kerry Goetz is the Associate Director for the National Eye Institutes Office of Data Science and Health Informatics at the US National Institutes of Health. In this capacity she is responsible for advancing data management and sharing strategy to make NEI data FAIR (Fully AI-Ready & Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable). For over a decade, Kerry ha been leading the eyeGENE Program, a controlled access resource with imaging, data, samples, and a participant registry for rare eye conditions. Kerry ha also been entrenched in standard development for over 15 years. Kerry co-leads the Eye Care and Vision Research Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics Working Group, is a member of the American Academy of Ophthalmology Standards Working Group, and also work to aligning imaging standard and health data to enable groundbreaking research. She is also a PhD Candidate at George Mason University, studying Health Services Research with a Knowledge Discovery and Health Informatics Concentration. She discus her career journey,evidence gap around vision research, how OHDSI impact her PhD journey, and more in the latest collaborator spotlight. The Jan. 23 community call looked at the recent UK Study-A-Thon, held last November at Saint Hildas College. The event focused on the use of fluoroquinolones across geography and over time, a well a on the epidemiology and characterization of rectal prolapse and rectopexy. At the end of an intense week, the team generated three draft manuscript almost ready for submission, and at least four conference abstract were in the making. Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Katherine Donegan, Annika Jodicke, and Jennifer Lane each provided insight during the presentation, which opened with a look at the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and the use of real-world evidence. The , and . Chungsoo Kim is a PhD candidate in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Ajou University College of Medicine. He earned his Doctor of Pharmacy degree from the College of Pharmacy of the same university in 2019. His research interest include reliable real-world evidence for medication and prediction of individual drug effects/adverse event based on the OMOP common data models. He is also interested in data/analytics infrastructure for conducting data-driven research. Since joining OHDSI in 2019, he ha participated in and led several research project at OHDSI. He currently participates in OHDSI working groups, including PatientLevelPrediction and the APAC group. He also served a a tutorial instructor for the 2019 OHDSI Korea International Symposium. Chungsoo discus his research focuses, his involvement in the OHDSI community, the growth of OHDSI around the Asia-Pacific region, and plenty more in the latest Collaborator Spotlight. On Dec. 16, 2013, George Hripcsak led the official formation of the OHDSI community. Within a month, the first face-to-face meeting wa held within the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Columbia University. How did we get from there to a global community of more than 3,800 collaborators? The Dec. 12 community call reflected on 10 year of OHDSI, with a video presentation led by Patrick Ryan. The presentation highlight several of the first in the community, including it first publication (which now ha more than 1,000 citations), first symposium in the United States, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, first open-source tools, and plenty more. It also reflects on some of the clinical impact made by the OHDSI community. The , while the slidedeck (which includes the 2023 Year In Review slides) . Alison Callahan is an Instructor in the Center for Biomedical Informatics and Clinical Data Scientist in the Stanford Health Care Data Science Team. Her current research us informatics to extract perinatal health data from electronic health records, and to study medication usage and effectiveness in pregnancy. She is also the co-leader of the OHDSI Perinatal & Reproductive Health (PRHeG) working group. Her work in the SHC Data Science team focus on developing and implementing method to ass and identify high value application of machine learning in healthcare settings. Alison completed her PhD in the Department of Biology at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada. Her doctoral research focused on developing HyQue, a framework for representing and evaluating scientific hypotheses, and applying this framework to discover gene related to aging. She wa also a developer for Bio2RDF, an open-source project to build and provide the largest network of Linked Data for the life sciences. Her postdoctoral work at Stanford applied methodology developed during her PhD to study spinal cord injury in model organism and human in a collaboration with scientist at the University of Miami. Alison discus her career journey, how OHDSI impact her research at Stanford, critical knowledge gap that can be addressed by the Perinatal and Reproductive Health workgroup, and more . Several community leader collaborated to highlight the power and potential of OHDSI during the opening day of the 2023 Symposium. Atif Adam, Asieh Golozar, Ben Martin, Paul Nagy, Gowtham Rao, Christian Reich, Mui Van Zandt, and Ross Williams led a full day workshop entitled Igniting Data Modernization with Harmonized Standards for Cutting-Edge Health Research. There were session focused on standardization, the value of reusable definition of disease for research, the collaborative open-science community, building concept sets, several open-source tool like Strategus and ATLAS, evidence at scale, and more. There were presentations, panel and hands-on demonstrations. This session wa not recorded, but the slide can be accessed above. Dr.AtifAdamis a system scientist and researcher boasting over a decade of diversified experience spanning academia, industry, and entrepreneurial ventures. He attained his doctorate in Health Systems Science and Computational Epidemiology. In addition, Dr.Adamcompleted his clinical training in Internal Medicine and secured master degree in Health Policy and Spatial Epidemiology. His research probe the nuanced relationship between chronic cardiometabolic diseases, mental health, cognitive aging, and health disparities. During his academic appointment at institution such a Johns Hopkins and Harvard, Dr.Adampioneered innovative simulation framework for cardiometabolic disease and rigorously evaluated care pathway for the most vulnerable populations. To this end, he employ advanced statistical, geospatial, and system modeling methodologies. Transitioning into the digital health space, Dr.Adamco-founded and assumed the role of Chief R&D Officer for the digital mental health startup, Rose Health. In this capacity, he harnessed large-scale data and sensor-based model to curate evidence-based digital solutions, primed for proactive patient monitoring. In his present role a the Associate Director of Epidemiology at IQVIA, Dr.Adamchannels his expertise to spearhead transformative real-world evidence (RWE) initiatives. Within the OMOP team at IQVIA, he merges his deep understanding of health systems, an unwavering commitment to health equity, and knowledge in data science to develop and deliver robust RWE study at scale. Beyond mere discovery, Dr.Adamis ardently devoted to mentorship, nurturing, and guiding the forthcoming generation of health scientist towards a more informed and equitable healthcare horizon. He discus his career journey, challenge in health equity and how OHDSI is dealing with them, advice for newcomer in OHDSI, and plenty more . The 2023 Titan Award honoree (not pictured: Nicole Pratt) To recognize OHDSI collaborator (or collaborating institutions) for their contribution towards OHDSIs mission, the OHDSI Titan Awards are awarded each year at the Global Symposium. We congratulate the eight honoree who were celebrated at OHDSI2023! The Titan Awards were first introduced in 2018, so this is the sixth class of honorees. 92 individual or team were nominated for Titans by fellow community member this year, and all nominee can be seen on . Data Standards: Gowtham Rao and Azza Shoaibi Methodological Research: Jiayi (Jessie) Tong Open-Source Development: Katy Sadowski Clinical Applications: Center for Surgical Science Community Leadership: Nicole Pratt Community Collaboration: Cynthia Sung Community Support: Gyeol Song The 2023 OHDSI Global Symposium brought together more than 430 community member from around the world for a three-day event filled with opportunity to learn, connect and forge new relationships. The main conference wa held during Day 1, and featured a plenary on improving the reliability and scale of case validation, a State of the Community presentation by several leader in the community, and a panel on lesson learned from OHDSI network studies. included a record number of posters, software demo and lightning talks, and the closing included a interactive session on large-scale collaboration, escape-room style. There were also two day of workshops, workgroup meeting and an Introduction to OHDSI tutorial. Videos from all presentation and the tutorial will be posted to the symposium homepage when available. Thank you to those who both volunteered their time to make the event a success or joined u to help push forward OHDSIs mission of improving health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. We are officially in Global Symposium month! The 2023 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 20-22 at the Hilton East Brunswick Hotel & Executive Meeting Center in East Brunswick, N.J., USA. The agenda for the 2023 Global Symposium main conference and it highlight the most diverse agenda in our event history. It list the full schedule for all three days, description on the various weekend activities, and all 137 poster and 24 software demo that will be presented during the collaborator showcase. The weekend activity include the full-day HowOften Characterization workshop, and Introduction to OHDSI tutorial, workgroup activities, an HL7 FHIR-OMOP Connectathon, and plenty more. Registration is still open, but spot are filling up fast. If you have not registered yet, ! Congratulations to the 93 individuals/teams who were nominated for a by a member of the OHDSI community! Annually, community member are invited to nominate individual or institution they feel have made significant contribution towards advancing. Once nomination are submitted, the OHDSI Titan Award Committee will select the award winners. Award winner will be announced before the networking reception at the annual symposium. The award categories, a well a all previous recipients, can be found on the home page. The winner will be announced during the closing ceremony of the 2023 Global Symposium. Jody-Ann McLeggon is a program manager at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center. She focus specifically on the collaboration between OHDSI and the U.S. Food & Drug Administration CBER Biologics Effectiveness and Safety (BEST) Community Engagement and Development Initiative. She also took a leadership role in leading the global community on the development and execution of four network study in the 2023 Save Our Sisyphus Challenge. Jody-Ann spent more than five year at Northwell Health a a research supervisor and coordinator. She managed project portfolio for multisite research project and oversaw research activity and development within the department. She also managed the implementation of NIH studies, clinical trials, and investigator-initiated studies. She discus the collaboration between OHDSI and the FDA, how OHDSI can assist regulator agency in the active surveillance of vaccine and drugs, lesson she learned about network studies, and more . As an open source community that want to share our science with the world, it can be challenging to keep track of the database around the globe that are currently standardizing their data to the OMOP CDM. The latest version of the OMOP CDM survey is our attempt to do just that. There are just 6 short questionsthat will help OHDSI understand the range and reach of the OMOP CDM. You should fill this out if you: Currently work for an organization whose data ha been standardized to the OMOP CDM Currently license a database that ha been standardized to the OMOP CDM Are a member of an organization that sends data to a network that utilizes the OMOP CDM (,) Are a member of a federated network that us the OMOP CDM (,) out by Sept. 8 to ensure your place in the next version of the Our Journey annual report, which will be shared . The August 2023 OHDSI Standardized Vocabulary Release wa announced , and it included a discussion on the seven vocabulary (CPT4, LOINC, NDC, RxNorm, RxNorm Extension, SPL and VANDF) that are either being refreshed or updated. There wa also a look ahead to the February 2024 update, which is planned to include work on SNOMED and ICD10, among others. Standardized vocabulary wa one of three primary focus for the OHDSI community in 2023, and the development of a community-empowered roadmap for consistent update ha been an early success. The community offered 11 contribution since this plan wa developed, and four were incorporated into the current release. You can learn more about the vocabulary release plan, what vocabulary are still being supported, and how you can provide contribution to the effort by visiting . Davera Gabriel, the Director for Terminology Management at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, ha had a distinguished career a a nurse informatician supporting local, regional, and national multi-site implementation of information technology, terminologies, and data standard in human and population health research. She ha worked with numerous team with various clinical and/or technical background and helped them achieve new height in informatics. As an inaugural chair of the HL7 Terminology Services Management Group, co-lead the OMOP + FHIR Working Group, and early participant in the National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C), Davera is focused on way to strengthen the partnership between OHDSI and HL7/FHIR, including through a full-day event at the 2023 Global Symposium. In the , Davera talk about her career journey, why OMOP is an ideal partner for the FHIR community, lesson learned a part of the N3C community, the HL7 FHIR-OMOP Connectathon, and plenty more. The 2023 Europe Symposium, held July 1-3 in Rotterdam, featured the widest breadth of research ever shared at the European event, and it also hosted several plenary talk and national update to show how strong the community continues to grow. The main conference included several talks, including session focused on European Initiatives Using the OMOP CDM and Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU), a well a 10 lightning talk focused on OHDSI Community Evidence. Videos of all talk will be posted on the Europe Symposium homepage when available. The event welcomed a record number of submission to the Collaborator Spotlight, including 45 poster on observational data standard and management, 28 on clinical applications, 11 on method research and five on open-source analytics development. The full list of title and most of the actual poster can be found . A full recap of the event wa shared during the July 11 community call; you can watch that presentation here. Alexander Davydov ha worked a the Technical Team Lead for the Medical Vocabulary team in Odysseus Data Services for more than five years. Alex and his team play an essential role in supporting the OMOP Standardized Vocabulary development for OHDSI, a well a the vocabulary need in the OMOP CDM ETL-project-related mapping activities. He helped develop the recently completed OHDSI Vocabularies Landscape Assessment and plan the future roadmap for release and community contributions. Before joining OHDSI in 2018, he worked a a clinical microbiologist and a lecturer in academia. He is a fully registered physician and obtained his Medical Doctor degree a well a his Doctor of Philosophy training from Belarusian State Medical University, Minsk, Belarus. Alex ha collected extensive experience in the OMOP CDM conventions, particularly around the proper use of the vocabularies. Alex contributed to the CDM/Vocabulary, Vaccinevocabulary, Registry (formerly UK Biobank), ATC, and Oncology working groups. , Alex share how his versatile background ha benefitted him in all area of OHDSI, when and why he developed his passion for the community, and his vision for OHDSIs standardized vocabularies. The June 6 OHDSI Community Call featured a session focused on OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies: Landscape, Roadmap & Community Contributions. Following the release of the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies Assessment, leader from the vocabulary team presented finding and next steps, including way to create a more transparent and reliable release cycle. This session wa led by: Anna Ostropolets(Director, Head of the Innovation Lab, Odysseus Data Services, Inc.) Alexander Davydov(Technical Team Lead, Odysseus Data Services, Inc.) Christian Reich(Senior Researcher, Erasmus University Medical Center; Professor of Practice, Northeastern University) Both the and are available. Mengling Mornin Feng is an Assistant Professor at the National University of Singapore and the Assistant Director of Research (Healthcare) at the Institute of Data Science. He ha several research interests, including artificial intelligence solution for healthcare challenges, causal inference for evidence-based medicine, and deep learning model for medical image analysis. Mornin ha been an OHDSI leader in helping to spread the community to the Asia-Pacific region. He is the chair of the Singapore Chapter, and recently helped develop a collaboration with the Singapore Ministry of Health that ha led the Ministry to use the OMOP CDM a the main platform for research. , Mornin discus his professional journey, how he connected with OHDSI, recent development within the Singapore and APAC regions, and plenty more. After receiving a record number of Collaborator Showcase submission for the 2022 Global Symposium, a well a for both the 2023 European and Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposiums, the 2023 Global Symposium will host extended hour for the upcoming Collaborator Showcase, including session during both weekend days. The submission deadline for the 2023 Collaborator Showcase is approaching, however. All brief report must be submitted by Friday, June 16, at 8 pm EST. to send in your submissions. More detail about the collaborator showcase . The 2023 Global Symposium will be held Oct. 20-22 in East Brunswick, New Jersey, USA, at the Hilton East Brunswick Hotel & Executive Meeting Center. , and more details, including hotel room block information, is available . The Save Our Sisyphus (SOS) Challenge is entering Week 7, and the global activity on these network study continues to inspire. We are collaborating simultaneously on four studies, each of which will be designed, implemented, executed and disseminated by member of the OHDSI global community. As you can see on the graphic, there are three week of tutorial remaining, including two session on May 9 that focus on study diagnostics. The first one, held during the traditional OHDSI community call, will be led by George Hripcsak and Fan Bu. The community ha led six week of tutorial already, highlighting both the early and middle step involved in running or participating in a network study. Please visit to watch any of these sessions, or to get important link to participate in any of the ongoing studies. Azza Shoaibi ha been collaborating with the OHDSI community for several years, and ha recently taken up new leadership opportunity around phenotyping. An Associate Director with Janssen Research and Development, Inc., Shoaibi first found OHDSI while she wa a postdoctorate fellow in bioinformatics at the Medical University of South Carolina. Since then she ha led or participated in several network studies, helped lead the first two Phenotype Phebruaries, and presented during the lightning talk at the 2022 OHDSI Global Symposium. , Azza discus her journey to observational health data work, why the science of phenotyping is both challenging and exciting, why she serf on the OHDSI Symposium Scientific Review Committee, and plenty more! The Open-Source Community hosted DevCon 2023 a a way to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer in the OHDSI Community. Organized byPaul Nagyand Adam Black, the event featured 11 short talk around five topic (see agenda) in the first session, followed by a trio of workshop that focused on significant topic for sustained success within our open-source community. The event also opened the application process for the Khieron Contributor 2023-24 Cohort. This program will help onboard and mentor open-source developer in the community for a second straight year. Katy Sadowski, a member of the original cohort, provided a and about her experience with the Kheiron Cohort. You can ; all application are due May 15. The will be held Oct. 20-22 at the NEW location of theHilton East Brunswick Hotel & Executive Meeting Center in East Brunswick, N.J. , and the is open until Friday, June 16, at 8 pm ET. Check for more information and update a we get closer to the OHDSI symposium. The titled Full Steam Ahead will be held July 1-3 in Rotterdam. The main conference will be held Monday, July 3, while there will be tutorial on the weekend of July 1-2. and the ha opened for this event. The deadline for abstract is April 30. will be held July 13-14 at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, and it will follow MedInfo 2023 (July 8-12 in Sydney, Australia). and the ha opened for this event. The call for participation deadline for abstract is April 15. The agenda is now posted . The main conference will be held July 13 with session focused on OHDSI Global, Research, and OHDSI APAC, while there will be tutorial held on July 14. The OHDSI mission is to improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. The 2023 Save Our Sisyphus (SOS) Challenge will try to fulfill that mission, but not through one study at a time. We will be collaborating simultaneously on four studies, each of which will be designed, implemented, executed and disseminated by member of the OHDSI global community. As you can see on the right, there will be two weekly tutorials, taught by different member of the community, and featuring two of the four study that were voted on by the community. Please join either or both each week to learn every step of executing a network study. The earlier session will take place during the weekly global community call, while the later will take place at 7 pm ET. Links for both meetings, weekly office hours, and all key component of the four network study are available on the homepage. Aniek Markus ha a double bachelor degree in Econometrics/Economics and a master degree in Econometrics from Erasmus University Rotterdam. During her studies, she worked a a research assistant at the Erasmus School of Health Policy and Management, where she investigated ethnic inequality in deceased donor kidney allocation and the productivity of Dutch hospitals. She wrote her master thesis on the causal effect of binary, continuous and multivariate treatment using propensity score methods. Currently, she is pursuing a PhD at the department of Medical Informatics with a focus on explainable artificial intelligence. Aniek ha been an OHDSI collaborator throughout her PhD journey at Erasmus; her first talk focused on Amongst Patients Hospitalized with Pneumonia, Who Are Most Likely To Require Intensive Services or Die? during the COVID Study-A-Thon final call. , she discus her journey to health data science, her focus on explainable AI, and how OMOP and OHDSI tool are assisting her research career. The Save Our Sisyphus Network Study Challenge will be a community activity this spring that brings our global collaborator together to lead a single study from idea to publication. This eight-week event will feature weekly tutorial on the Tuesday community call to demonstrate the best practice developed within OHDSI to generate robust and reliable evidence. The OHDSI community will provide support through every step of the process, including designing an appropriate protocol, implementing a network analysis package, executing across OHDSI data partners, and preparing a manuscript for publication. The goal is to collaboratively complete this network study over the course of 8 week between late March and May, using the open-source tool and process that OHDSI ha established. In order to do the research, though, we must have a question to study. Thank you to everybody in the community who shared their suggested research ideas; four were selected for presentation on the March 7 community call, and now we ask the community to vote for one to be highlighted each week on the community call. We believe all four are terrific ideas, and we hope all four can be completed this spring, but we will focus on one during the community calls. . Please check them out and then vote for one to be featured during the spring. Faaizah Arshad is a psychology major at UCLA who ha already taken a strong role within the OHDSI community. She became the first undergraduate to take part in a symposium plenary whenn she presented on The EUMAEUS project: Applying method sequentially during the 2021 Global Symposium. She and Ross Williams co-founded the Early-Stage Researchers workgroup in 2021 to create an inviting venue for junior OHDSI community member early in their career to navigate OHDSIs resources, ask questions, present their research, find mentorship through networking, and seek insight on their career trajectories. Currently, the workgroup host a Career Speaker Series each month, and ha led Meet The Mentors event at the European and Global Symposiums. Arshad wa honored with the Titan Award for Community Support in 2021. , she discus how OHDSI ha impacted her undergraduate education, how she wa able to make such an impact so early in her journey in observational research, and why she belief other junior researcher can make an impact in OHDSI. Phenotype Phebruary is a community-wide initiative to both develop and evaluate phenotype for health outcome that could be investigated by the community. This is the second year of Phenotype Phebruary in the OHDSI community (). It wa introduced during the Jan. 31 community call (), and will go on throughout the month. This year, the leadership team ofGowtham RaoandAzza Shoaibihelped identify 10 phenotype that are being investigated throughout the month. If you would like to join the discussion around any of the phenotypes, , which will take you to the proper thread on the OHDSI forums. Among the link on the homepage are direct link to the phenotype being investigated, four different discussion around the value and challenge of phenotyping, and video of both community update and detailed discussion within the Phenotype Evaluation & Workgroup team on specific phenotype being investigated. The Save Our Sisyphus Network Study Challenge will be a community activity this spring that brings our global collaborator together to lead a single study from idea to publication. The OHDSI community will provide support through every step of the process, working with you to design an appropriate protocol, implement a network analysis package, execute across OHDSI data partners, and prepare a manuscript for publication. Our goal is to collaboratively complete this network study over the course of 8 week across April and May, using the open-source tool and process that OHDSI ha established. Our 2023 SOS Challenge can focus on any of the three analysis use case that we regularly discus in OHDSI: clinical characterization-descriptive statistic for disease natural history and treatment utilization; population-level effect estimation-causal inference for safety surveillance and comparative effectiveness; or, patient-level prediction-machine learning for disease interception and precision medicine. We are particularly interested in supporting junior researcher looking to conduct their first network analysis, but all OHDSI collaborator are welcome and encouraged to submit their ideas. If you are interested in participating in the SOS Challenge, , where youll be asked to provide your research question and a statement about why you think your question is clinically important and should be answered by the OHDSI network. Anna Ostropoletsintroduced atodirectly informwhich vocabulary and activitiesthe vocabulary team prioritizes in 2023.The feedbackon the vocabulary use and problem willdirectly informwhich vocabulary and activitiesare prioritized in 2023. Filling the form should take about10 minutes. We are seeking informationabout the vocabulary you use, what you think about their quality, challenge you encountered and what we can do to improve the content and the process of distribution and update. There are TWO survey that can be filled out. The first is . The second is . Please fill it for each data source you have a we will use this information to prioritize the vocabulary we work on. During the initial OHDSI community call of 2023, Patrick Ryan highlighted several community initiatives, activity and opportunity that can provide a foundation to further our shared mission of improving health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. There were three main pillar around OHDSI work in 2023 that wa highlighted: 1) standardized vocabularies; 2) a standardized data network; 3) standardized open-source tools. There wa also discussion around a community-run network study in the spring, the return of Phenotype Phebruary and DevCon, and plenty more. The . During the Jan. 24 community call, Patrick will join Anna Ostropolets and Clair Blacketer to discus specific way in which the community can collaborate to address several of the priority mentioned in this session. PatientLevelPrediction,, is an R package for building and validating patient-level predictive model using data in the OMOP Common Data Model format. Check out thefor more information. PLP workgroup co-lead and package maintainer Jenna Reps created a series of demo video to provide assistance with using v6 of the package. , or on(check out the tutorial playlist). Specific video topic include how to extract data and develop a single model, how to design prediction model and develop multiple models, how to use the PLP v6 shiny app, how to use the new OHDSI R package Strategus and OHDSI module to develop an OHDSI prediction development network study, and how to run an OHDSI prediction network study using the new Strategus approach. Patrick Ryan presented a comprehensive look back at the activities, publications, open-source development and more from the OHDSI community throughout 2022 during a December community call. This month-by-month journey highlight community OKRs from the beginning of the year, activity like Phenotype Phebruary and DevCon, a well a our first three in-person event since the COVID pandemic, the European, Global and APAC Symposia. . Dr. Thamir Alshammari is an advisor to the President of the Saudi Food and Drug Authority (SFDA). He is a pharmacoepidemiology and pharmacovigilance consultant. He is also a distinguished expert for the Chinese National drug safety and policy center at Xian, China, a well a an ambassador to the British Pharmacological Society. He is a senior researcher at the Medication Safety Research Chair. Thamir ha been an active contributor to the OHDSI community for several years. He collaborates in several workgroups, including Population-Level Estimation, Health Equity and the recently-completed Vaccine Evidence WG, and ha been a contributor in several important network studies, which are discussed below. He also brings unique perspective a somebody working with a national government on critical healthcare issues. Thamir discus his journey in pharmacovigilance and health policy, and how that path found the OHDSI community, a well a some of the work he focus on within OHDSI. He also discus why OHDSI can be a difference maker in generating trustworthy evidence, tool and best practice within the community, and plenty more . The open-source tool that empower OHDSIs global research initiative are not only available to the community, but they are also developed by the community. Leaders from around the world have developed tool that provide the foundation for OHDSI collaborator to engage in robust, reliable and reproducible observational health research. During various, developer join and provide 10-minute tutorial to educate the community about the tool potential impact, and how they can be used in research. These tutorial are available on, but are also posted on the new . To learn more about HADES, a set of open source R package for large scale analytics, including population characterization, population-level causal effect estimation, and patient-level prediction, . During the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, community leader taught a full-day tutorial meant to introduce participant to the varying step along the journey from data to evidence using the OMOP Common Data Model, OHDSI tool and scientific best practices. All video and slide from the day are now available on the tutorial homepage. In each 50-minute segment, the 140 student learned the conceptual framing of the problem and approach to the solution. The class had the opportunity to gain hands-on exposure to design and implementation of analysis and interpretation of results. The course wa motivated by a real use case: using observational data to generate evidence about the relationship between an exposure and outcome, and it highlighted how the suite of OHDSI tool and practice can enable such learning. This class wa designed for newcomer to the OHDSI community who were looking for a high-level summary across a wide range of topic covered within the OHDSI community. It wa also designed for those in the OHDSI community who may be focused in one particular area of the journey, but who want exposure to the other areas, so they can better understand how their work contributes to be big picture. More than 400 community member from around the world connected Oct. 14-16 in Bethesda, Md., for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, the first in-person global symposium since 2019. The weekend theme wa Building A Healthier World Together, and both the main conference and the weekend activities, including a full-day tutorial, highlighted the different way OHDSI ha impacted global healthcare, and the step needed to be taken to build on that foundation. The main day featured a plenary presentation on Objective Diagnostics: A pathway to provably reliable evidence, a well a talk on OHDSI support for regulatory authorities. A record-setting amount of submission for the led to two hour of poster and demo presentations, a well a eight lightning talks. There wa also a state of the community talk at the beginning and a closing talk that discussed how OHDSI can move forward together, how collaboration can take place globally and legos. The OHDSI 2022 Symposium web page includes all the video and slide from the weekend, including our Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence tutorial, so please visit the page and check out everything that happened during the symposium weekend. The 2022 Titan Award winner were announced during the closing of the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. Congratulations to all of our winners, and to the 50+ individual or group who were nominated by member of our community. Data Standards: Melanie Philofsky, Odysseus Date Services Methodological Research: Fan Bu, UCLA Open-Source Development: Egill Fridgeirsson, Erasmus MC and James Gilbert, Janssen Research and Development Clinical Applications: Xintong Li, University of Oxford Community Collaboration: Ajit Londhe, Boehringer Ingelhei Community Leadership: Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins University Community Support: Craig Sachson, Columbia University The American College of Medical Informatics (ACMI) will present the 2022 Morris F. Collen Award of Excellence to George Hripcsak, MD, MS, FACMI, Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor and Chair of the Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University, during the opening session of the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) 2022 Annual Symposium. AMIAs Annual Symposium is November 5-9 in Washington, D.C. In honor of Morris F. Collen, a thought leader in the field of medical informatics, this prestigious award is presented to an individual whose personal commitment and dedication to medical informatics ha made a lasting impression on the field. The award is determined by ACMIs Awards Committee. ACMI is pleased to recognize Dr. Hripcsak for his substantial accomplishment to the field of biomedical informatics, said ACMI President Genevieve Melton-Meaux, MD, PhD, FACMI, Professor of Surgery and Health Informatics and Director of the Center for Learning Health System Sciences, University of Minnesota, Chief Analytics and Care Innovation Officer, Fairview Health Services. Dr. Hripcsaks contribution have stretched around the globe and his collaboration with those both inside and outside of our field ha expanded the reach and impact of informatics. As a mentor, Dr. Hripcsak reminds his peer to Do good work. I am grateful for the guidance and mentorship he ha provided to me and many others in biomedical informatics. Jing Li is an Associate Director of Data Science at IQVIA, where she is leading a global team of data scientist on real world studies, focusing on treatment patterns, and drug safety studies. She ha several year of industry experience in predictive modeling, machine learning, and data management, and she decided to focus her work on healthcare research in 2019. Jing ha grown into a leader in the OHDSI Asia-Pacific (APAC) Community. She lead the bi-weekly APAC community call and is part of the steering group for both the APAC workgroup and APAC symposium planning committee. She wa also a co-author on the first ever network study published by the APAC workgroup,. In our most recent edition of the Collaborator Spotlight, Jing discus her career and how she moved into healthcare, her excitement about the growing APAC community, and plenty more. Perseus, an open-source tool developed within the OHDSI community, combine intuitive and easy to use Web-based UI for design and implement ETL (extract, transform, and load) configuration and service for conversion the native/raw data to the OMOP Common Data Model (CDM).Additionally, Perseus ha embedded tool for search in the standardized vocabularies, generates documentation for the ETL process, create the code mapping and data quality check. Zachary Wang led a live demo of this tool during the Sept. 13 community call, which wa focused on Clinical Registry Efforts in OHDSI. Paul Nagy, Matthew Robinson and Lee Evans also presented on this important topic, while Emily Pfaff, a leader in the National COVID Cohort Collaborative, will join a future call to discus Distributed Machine Learning Using OMOP. The OHDSI Symposium will take place Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel and Conference Center, and the full weekend agenda ha been posted. The main conference day will include a plenary session on Objective Diagnostics: A pathway to provably reliable evidence, presentation on OHDSI support for regulatory authorities, a collaborator showcase that includes 100+ posters, 17 software demo and 8 lightning talks, and a closing talk you wont want to miss. The weekend will include a full-day Saturday tutorial on a well a throughout the weekend. The includes a full list of the software demo and lightning talks; a future version will include all of the poster title and presenters. There will be capped total for all sessions, so please dont wait until the last minute to secure your spot for our highlight event of the year! Paul Nagy, PhD, FSIIM is Associate Professor in the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine Department of Radiology with a joint appointment in Medicine and the Department of Biomedical Engineering in the School of Engineering. He received his BS from Carnegie Mellon University and his PhD at the Medical College of Wisconsin. His research focus is developing biomarkers from medical imaging to enable real world reproducible evidence from observational research. He is the director of education for the training program in the. He lead the Observational Health and Data Science Informatics (OHDSI) effort at Johns Hopkins a part of the. He is a leader in the OHDSI community, especially within the developer community. He began the Kheiron Cohort in 2022, which serf to welcome and mentor developers, and he joined Adam Black to start the open-source community workgroup this year a well. Nagy, who is also active in several other workgroups and co-leads the Medical Imaging WG, helped lead the DevCon 2022 event, and ha developed tool to track OHDSI impact in several areas. He shared some thought about his career, his many contribution to the OHDSI community, and plenty more . The July 26 community call featured a session led byClair Blacketer, Paul Nagy and Davera Gabrielon what to do when your data doe not fit into the OMOP CDM. Our community continues to expand globally, and both individual and organization often look for new enhancement to the CDM. There will be a new decision tree and process implemented to try and streamline this procedure and to clarify how data model request are made and codified, and these were presented and discussed during this meeting. The presentation , and it includes specific use case presented by both Nagy and Gabriel to help show how the decision tree and process happens. The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium wa held June 24-26 on the SS Rotterdam in the Netherlands. More than 350 collaborator gathered together for the community first in-person symposium since the COVID pandemic to connect, share research, and learn from each other. Videos from all presentation . Among the topic during the symposium wa the use of the OMOP-CDM, tool development, and future research. The first day included a collaborator showcase which featured both poster and podium presentation to highlight OHDSIs research achievements, and interactive demonstration of OHDSIs open-source software tools. The symposium also contained a Cruise Around Europe session in which representative from 10 different European nation provided update on the exciting work that is being done all over the continent, including National Nodes, large European Projects, and other initiatives. There were also presentation given by both Erica Voss (Characterizing Adverse Events in COVID-19 infected patient across the OHDSI network) and host Peter Rijnbeek (Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU)), a well a a reaction panel. OHDSI offer a wide range of open-source tool to support various data-analytics use case on observational patient-level data. Many of these tool are developed and maintained by community members, including those in our HADES and Open-Source Community workgroups (). Four of our open-source tool were the focus of a June 10-Minute Tutorial community call, where the tool lead provided a brief presentation on the tool and how it can be used. Each of those presentations, along with slide and further information, The EHDEN Portal, which provides free access to the research community, wa launched at the 2022 OHDSI European Symposium. The Portal includes a Data Partner Catalogue and Feasibility Dashboards that support data discoverability (findable under Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable (FAIR) principles). The Portal represents the start of an open platform to facilitate identifying data that is likely to be used for a research topic, through the study workflow to analytical results. It give researcher more granular insight into EHDENs 140-strong Data Partner network with currently more than 500 million anonymous patient record being mapped to the OMOP common data model local to the data. The Portal content will be continually updated a all EHDEN Data Partners complete their mapping cycle to the OMOP common data model, but also subsequent module to support interoperability and reuse via data visiting/remote analysis with standardized analytical tools, again within the FAIR principles. Hence, the Portal will ultimately support the full research workflow from hypothesis and data discoverability through to analytical outputs, with all step in between. The Portal also includes link to the, which currently offer 17 free and on-demand training module developed by the OHDSI/EHDEN community, now followed in more than 60 countries, and evidence generated in more than 50 The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community and SNOMED International have formalized their long-time relationship with a five-year collaborative agreement that will benefit both of their user communities. Effective April 29, 2022, the collaboration provides OHDSI and it user community with comprehensive ontology on specific healthcare domain and content such a devices, social determinant of health, disease severity score and modifier of cancers, a well a better concept definition and resolution of composite concept in large-scale observational research. In return, OHDSI and it user community can provide SNOMED International with information and feedback on clinical validation, frequency of use data, and validation of SNOMED CT content modeling. Ultimately, continuous feedback shared regarding identified content gap will benefit both user community a we move forward together. The collaboration support SNOMED Internationals Member and stakeholder-driven five-year strategy, which includes genomic content collaboration a well a engagement with the research community. The work of OHDSI look to showcase the use of SNOMED CT for the purpose of data analytics, supporting both healthcare research and audit, with the aim of enhancing healthcare globally. Through the first five month of 2022, the OHDSI community saw more than 40 study published in peer-review journal that featured either the OMOP CDM or OHDSI tools, data network and/or best practices. Five of these study were presented during the June 14 OHDSI community call, including the first ever publication from the Asia-Pacific (APAC) workgroup. Both video and slidedecks from each presentation are posted on this page (see study on the attached graphic). The call also introduced a new publication dashboard that is available to the community to track paper and author from the community. This dashboard, which wa developed by Paul Nagy and his team, is available within the menu atop the website (Publications). A video description of the dashboard is also available on this homepage. Nicole Pratt, a longtime collaborator with the OHDSI community, is the Deputy Director of the Quality Use of Medicines and Pharmacy Research Centre at the University of South Australia. She is a member of the Drug Utilisation Subcommittee (DUSC) of the Australian Department of Health Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC). She ha a particular interest in new statistical methodology to study the effectiveness and safety of medicine use and in the development of tool for post-marketing surveillance of medicines. This interest helped lead her to be a collaborator within the OHDSI LEGEND initiative; the LEGEND hypertension study led to that found that the most popular hypertension drug wasnt the most effective. Nicole ha also been one of the leader in the growing Asia-Pacific (APAC) OHDSI community and the leader of the Australia chapter. She discus her own research, the development in the OHDSI APAC community, the importance of large community initiative and much more in the latest edition of the Collaborator Spotlight. Six OHDSI network study were presented during a May 2022 community call to both inform the community about global research effort (either ongoing or recently completed), a well a call for collaborator to join in these important research projects. These brief update were recorded and posted to the OHDSI YouTube channel, . You can also access slide above each of the video presentations. If you are interested in collaborating, please reach out to the presenter on Teams or within the OHDSI forums. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) recently announced the Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU) initiative to support the ability to deliver real-world evidence from across Europe on diseases, population and the us and performance of medicines. This will enable the EMA and national competent authority in the European medicine regulatory network to use these data whenever needed throughout the lifecycle of a medicinal product. The EMA announced that the Erasmus University Medical Center would serve a the coordination centre for this project. Erasmus role is to provide timely and reliable evidence on the use, safety and effectiveness of medicine for human use, including vaccines, from real world healthcare database across the European Union (EU). Peter Rijnbeek, a long-time OHDSI collaborator and 2019 recipient of the Titan Award for Community Leadership, is the Head of the Department of Medical Informatics at Erasmus MC and is leading this effort, along with Dani Prieto-Alhambra, another Titan Award recipient who recently joined the Erasmus faculty. Rijnbeek , which includes: information about the DARWIN EU mission, vision and five-year plan the DARWIN EU process for conducting study information about data source used by DARWIN EU the role of the coordinating center, and how OHDSI tools, including the OMOP Common Data Model, data standard and best practice can and will impact this initiative plenty more (including a fun video showing just how to sign ALL the paper needed for this contract) The OHDSI community is proud to collaborate with Erasmus MC on this initiative to give the European Medicines Agency and national competent authority in EU Member States access to valid and trustworthy real-world evidence, for example on diseases, patient populations, and the use, safety and effectiveness of medicines, including vaccines, throughout the lifecycle of a medicinal product. Asieh Golozar, a longtime OHDSI collaborator and the 2021 Titan Award for Clinical Application recipient, is Vice President and Global Head of Data Science at Odysseus Data Services, Inc. She also serf a Professor of the Practice & Director of Clinical Research at the OHDSI Center, Northeastern University. Golozar currently lead the Oncology workgroup, and she discus it impact on her OHDSI journey, a well a it goal for the upcoming year. She also discus her path to epidemiology (which wasnt her first career path), why she is working with the Roux Institute around reproducibility, and plenty more in the latest Collaborator Spotlight. The OHDSI Coordinating Center, located in the Columbia University Department of Biomedical Informatics, support the OHDSI open-source community and the shared mission to improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Among the way that the Coordinating Center provides this support is through stewardship of open-community data standards, by enabling open-source development, by facilitating method research and clinical applications, by encouraging open sharing and evidence dissemination, and by fostering collaboration and empowering a sense of community. OHDSI ha introduced a Sponsorship Program, which will allow both corporation and individual to make meaningful contribution in support of OHDSIs central coordinating activities. There are three level of support, including donation amount and benefit to the sponsor, which are detailed on the . George Hripcsak, Chair and Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor of Biomedical Informatics at Columbia University, provided a detailed presentation on the support provided by the Coordinating Center during an April 2022 community call. . The March 29 OHDSI Community Call focused on reproducibility, and three leader in the community shared presentation on this topic. Anna Ostropolets, a PhD student at Columbia University, shared a presentation on the OHDSI Reproducibility Challenge, a one-day event held during the 2021 OHDSI Symposium that attempted to have team of OHDSI collaborator reproduce the cohort logic for target, comparator and outcome cohort for a published study run outside of OHDSI. Martijn Schuemie, a Research Fellow in epidemiology analytics at Janssen Research and Development, shared a presentation on creating reproducible study using OHDSI tool and best practices. Topics included the need for analysis to be repeatable, writing study a a pipeline, and how to create the proper study package. Asieh Golozar, Vice President and Global Head of Data Science at Odysseus Data Services, Inc., shared a community update on the OHDSI Reproducibility Service, which is centered at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University. This talk includes discussion of what type of study make for a good candidate for reproducibility, the approach with the Center, and a proof of concept study that is seeking data partner collaboration. Videos and slide from the presentation are included within . The Open-Source Community is hosting the first Dev Con on Friday, April 22 (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul NagyandAdam Black, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. Who should consider registering for DevCon? We are looking for people who are interested in participating with an OHDSI project team, seeing under the hood of the OHDSI engine, or being mentored by professional developers. The full agenda, including all eight current workshop offering and the planned panel discussion, a well a registration link are available . We are thrilled to announce that registration for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center, is now open! The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. Other community activities, mainly focused on OHDSI workgroups, will be held both Oct. 15 and Oct. 16. The OHDSI2022 homepage ha more information, a well a registration link to both the conference and the tutorial (these are separate event and each requires it own registration), information on , hotel room blocks, and plenty more. Direct registration is available for both and . Please continue to check our symposium homepage and our social platforms, and join the weekly OHDSI community calls, for more information. The March 22 OHDSI Community Call provided an in-depth look at the OHDSI vocabulary, from how it is developed, to how it can be utilized, and where it should grow from here. Three leader from the vocabulary workgroup joined to present a trio of topic for this session (see below), and the video is now available along with the Standardized Vocabulary introduction from the book of OHDSI. Michael Kallfelz (Physician Executive Odysseus Data Services) led a discussion on A peek into the OHDSI vocabulary engine room, while Patrick Ryan (Vice President, Observational Health Data Analytics Janssen Research & Development) provided a presentation on Fun thing you can learn with the OHDSI standardized vocabularies. Christian Reich (Vice President, RWE Systems IQVIA) concluded the presentation with a forward-looking discussion:Time for reflection Where are we? Where should we be? This session also introduced a to member of the OHDSI vocabulary team and all the work it take to create the OHDSI vocabularies, which are critical for the success of our community. The slide from this presentation . Clair Blacketer and member of the Common Data Model Workgroup led the OHDSI Community on a two-session OMOP CDM Workshop during the March 2022 Community Calls. Both session are put together into a single video, so you can both watch the full workshop and access the slide by clicking the link above. Below are the topic covered and the timestamp within this video tutorial. Technical Considerations for Setup(Frank DeFalco) 4:34 Data Governance(Kristin Kostka) 9:47 White Rabbit/Rabbit In A Hat(Maxim Moinat) 20:09 1st Session Q&A(Clair Blacketer) 30:10 Vocabulary Mapping and USAGI(Melanie Philofsky) 39:21 Data Quality Dashboard(Clair Blacketer) 1:00:38 ACHILLES(Anthony Molinaro) 1:06:55 Putting It All Together (Frank DeFalco) 1:13:57 Maxim Moinat is a data engineer with a demonstrated history of working in bioinformatics and medical informatics. He ha worked a a data engineer/software developer for since 2016, and recently became a scientific researcher for the Erasmus MC medical informatics department. He ha been a long-time collaborator with both the OHDSI and communities. Maxim earned a for his invaluable contribution in data standards. He lead the Registry workgroup, contributes to open-source development and ha provided tutorial and other presentation during global community calls. He said his passion is to apply his skill to advance biomedical science, ultimately improving healthcare for many patients. Maxim recently shared several insight in our latest Collaborator Spotlight. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) announced Feb. 9 that Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam ha been contracted to establish the DARWIN EU () Coordination Centre. The role of the Coordination Centre is to develop and manage a network of real-world healthcare data source across the EU and to conduct scientific study requested by medicine regulator and, at a later stage, requested by other stakeholders. The vision of DARWIN EU is to give EMA andnational competent authority in EU Member States access to valid and trustworthy real-world evidence, for example on diseases, patient populations, and the use, safety and effectiveness of medicines, including vaccines, throughout the lifecycle of amedicinal product. Peter Rijnbeek, a veteran OHDSI collaborator and Titan Award honoree, is the Chair of the Department of Medical Informatics of the Erasmus Medical Center. The first COVID-19 prediction model developed and validated by the OHDSI community following the March 2020 global study-a-thon wa recently published byBMC Medical Research Methodology. The study developed COVID-19 Estimated Risk (COVER) score that quantify a patient risk of hospital admission with pneumonia (COVER-H), hospitalization with pneumonia requiring intensive service or death (COVER-I), or fatality (COVER-F) in the 30-days following COVID-19 diagnosis using historical data from patient with influenza or flu-like symptom and tested this in COVID-19 patients. Led by co-first author Ross Williams and Aniek Markus, both of whom share thought on both the model and it impact in this writeup, the team designed a nine-predictor risk model that wa validated using more than 44,500 COVID patient (following initial development and validation using more than 6.8 million patient with influenza or flu-like symptoms). This model predicts hospitalization, intensive services, and death, and can help provide reassurance for low-risk patients, while shielding high-risk patients, a many start to enter the de-confinement stage of the pandemic. Phenotype Phebruary is a community-wide initiative to both develop and evaluate phenotype for health outcome that could be investigated by the community. Patrick Ryan introduced this initiative in both a video presentation and , and each of the conversation around the 28 phenotype for 28 day are being held within the OHDSI forums. Our will provide direct link to each forum post, which is where conversation around each specific phenotype should be held. Please be active in these discussions. There are many way you can contribute, including joining the conversation, evaluating the cohort definition in your own data (execute cohort definition and CohortDiagnostics in your CDM, hare insight you learn from your data on the forums, etc.), or lead your own discussion on phenotype of interest. Hongfang Liu (Mayo Clinic) and Christopher Chute (Johns Hopkins University) led a session on Extracting OHDSI Concepts from Clinical Narratives for COVID during the Jan. 25 OHDSI Community Call. Following the presentation (approximately 33 minutes), there wa a Q&A session. Following an overview of the National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C), the presentation focused on Open Health Natural Language Processing and collaborating with the NLP-empowered RECOVER work. You can , and . Worldwide effort to promote vaccination require reliable evidence about the safety and effectiveness of vaccine to build trust in their use. Regulators and other public health agency play a critical role in generating and synthesizing evidence across an array of data source a part of a collective public health infrastructure. One desired component of that system is the use of observational data, such a de-identified electronic health record and administrative claims, to conduct analysis that can identify true adverse event of vaccine a quickly a possible, while simultaneously reducing the chance that analysis generate false positive finding that may stimulate unnecessary worry. In this context, understanding the reliability of study design in vaccine surveillance system is important to ensure that evidence is appropriately used by all stakeholders. Historical comparator designs, which compare background rate of event in a general population versus observed rate amongst a vaccinated cohort, have been regularly used by regulator and other vaccine safety researchers. Those study may generate a high number of false positives, according to a recent study published in Frontiers in Pharmacology. The paper, which studied the method used for surveillance of the H1N1, flu, and other recent vaccines, highlight a need to further evaluate study design in this critical time of COVID-19 vaccine surveillance. Age-sex adjustment and empirical calibration were among the measure used to produce more reliable surveillance monitoring findings, according to the study led by Xintong Li, a DPhil candidate at the University of Oxford, and supported by the OHDSI and EHDEN open science community Our Journey: Where The OHDSI Community Came From, And Where We Are Going, a new publication released at the 2021 OHDSI Global Symposium, is available for download to the global community. This publication highlight all aspect of the global community, ranging from it start and global mission, to it OMOP Common Data Model and global data network, to it collaborative efforts, ranging from study-a-thons and symposium to a full list of more than 360 community publications. The book is divided into 9 chapter (see the graphic to the right), including section on collaborator and collaborative activities, data standards, method research, and open-source software. The history of OHDSI publications, including a graphic to show just how collaborative the community is, and our work around COVID-19 is also included, a is a look at future goal for the OHDSI community. While the download is free, you are able to order the book for yourself, or for your organization. Please reach out to for more information. Six OHDSI network studies, ranging from those in development to those nearing completion, were presented during the Nov. 16 community call, the second open study call of 2021. The call highlighted the breadth of research happening in the community, but also served a call for collaboration on these important efforts. The individual study presentation are available at the link below. Asieh Golozar: Leena Elhussein: Nomie Elhadad: Jacob Zelko: Annika Jodicke and Kristin Kostka: Erica Voss: The LEGEND (Large-scale Evidence Generation and Evaluation across a Network of Databases) Initiative applies high-level analytics to perform observational research on hundred of million of patient record within OHDSIs international database network. LEGEND principle have been applied to studying the effect of treatment for depression, hypertension, and COVID-19, and are being applied to Type 2 diabetes. The clinical impact of LEGEND ha already been observed, with important evidence that promotes better health decision published in Lancet, JAMA Internal Medicine, and Hypertension. During the Oct. 19 OHDSI Community Call, member of the LEGEND team , it work around hypertension, and plan around Type 2 diabetes. The 2021 OHDSI Global Symposium featured plenary presentation on both OHDSIs Impact on the COVID-19 Pandemic, a well a on the Journey to Reliable Evidence. The main day included the State of the Community Presentation, the Collaborator Showcase, and a memorable Closing Ceremony that focused on OHDSIs work through the perspective of a patient. There were also a pair of activities, including the first OHDSI Reproducibility Challenge workshop, and a full-day tutorial on building conceptsets. All material from the 2021 Symposium will be shared on this page in the coming weeks. The first two sessions, a well a link to the collaborator showcase presentations, are currently available below. The 2021 OHDSI Symposium began Sunday, Sept. 12, with a full-day tutorial on Building Conceptsets, and then completed it first reproducibility challenge workshop (see image, right). Finally, the main two day began with the first of two plenaries, focusing on OHDSIs impact on the COVID-19 pandemic. It concludes Wednesday with a plenary focusing on the journey to reliable evidence. Recordings from all session will be posted in the near future, including both reaction panels, which brought together leader in the field to comment on what they learned from OHDSI presentations. Please continue to check OHDSI.org and our social feed for an announcement on when those video will be available. The daily agenda for the 2021 OHDSI Global Symposium, set for Sept. 12-15, includes a pair of plenaries (Sept. 14: OHDSI Impact on the COVID-19 Pandemic; Sept. 15: Generating Reliable Evidence), the first-ever OHDSI Reproducibility Challenge, a full-day tutorial on Building Conceptsets, and an interactive Collaborator Showcase that will have session convenient for collaborator around the world. The Symposium, which will be held in the OHDSI MSTeams environment, will begin Sunday, Sept. 12, with the , and then will continue on Monday with the . The traditional symposium will take place over Sept. 14-15, with plenaries and collaborator showcase session on both days. Check out for more information, and for all registration links. Mui Van Zandt and Clair Blacketer, a pair of Titan Award honoree within OHDSI, led a pair of community-driven activity that had multiple benefit during August. Van Zandt, a leader in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) community, ran a two-day ETL tutorial August 12-13 that featured seven different session (Introduction to ETL & Source Data Analysis, Vocabulary Mapping Part I, Vocabulary Mapping Part II, ETL Specification Writing, ETL Specification Review, Common Issues in ETL Conversion and OMOP ETL Development, and Data Quality Checks). You can watch all of the recording now . Blacketer led a two-day CDM Hackathon August 18-19 that welcomed 25 collaborator (see screenshot, right) and focused on our data standard in the OMOP common data model. The team addressed 33 issues, closed 30 pull request and ended with a fully-functional R package. This effort wa devoted to the preparation for OMOP CDM v5.4 and included work on documentation. You can hear about both activity . When Martijn Schuemie planned a HADES (Health Analytics Data to Evidence Suite) Unit-Test-A-Thon, his goal wa to improve some HADES package to greater than 80% coverage, and to familiarize more community member with the code and these tools. He didnt necessarily expect a wide swath of the community to come together for one of OHDSIs most successful collaborative event in 2021, but he wa happy to see such a successful community event. 32 collaborator ranging from veteran to newcomer came together to significantly enhance the community-developed tool package that serf a the foundation for almost all community research. during a recent community call. Two type of drug that are recommended a a first treatment for patient with high blood pressure were found equally effective in improving cardiovascular outcomes, though the more popular type cause slightly more side effects, find a multinational observational study led by researcher within the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community. The study, which analyzed claim and electronic health data from million of patient worldwide, is the largest to compare the safety and efficacy of ACE inhibitor and ARBs, two commonly prescribed antihypertensive drugs. It wa published . Physicians in the United States and Europe overwhelmingly prescribe ACE inhibitors, simply because the drug have been around longer and tend to be le expensive than ARBs, say George Hripcsak, MD, Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor and chair of biomedical informatics at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and senior author of the study. Columbia University serf a the coordinating center for the OHDSI community. But our study show that ARBs are associated with fewer side effect than ACE inhibitors. The study wa focused on first-time user of these drugs. If youre just starting drug therapy for hypertension, you might consider trying an ARB first. If youre already taking an ACE inhibitor and youre not having any side effects, there is nothing that we found that would indicate a need for a change. The PROTEUS (Predicting & Recalibrating Outcomes Toward External Understanding Study) study wa presented during our July 13 Community Call. The foundation of this study took place during the 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium. The presentation wa led by the two study leaders,David Kent(Professor of Medicine, Clinical & Translational Science Tufts Medical Center) andBenjamin Wessler(Director, Valve Center; Assistant Professor, Tufts University School of Medicine). Both the and are available for the community. As approved COVID-19 vaccine are rolled out globally, it is likely that safety signal will be identified from spontaneous report and other data sources. Although some work ha been done on the best method for vaccine safety surveillance, there is a scarcity of information on how these perform in analysis of real-world data. The EUMAEUS (Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance) team is collaborating to study the comparative performance (bias, precision, and timeliness) of different analytical method for the study of comparative vaccine safety. This work wa presented during a June community call ( and are available). The topic for the presentation are listed below. Literature Review(Lana Lai, Postdoctoral Research Associate, University of Manchester) Overview of the EUMAEUS Experiment Design(Marc Suchard, Professor, Department of Biomathematics, UCLA) Bias, Precision and Timeliness of Historical Rate Comparison Methods(Xintong Li, DPhil Candidate, University of Oxford) Combining Methods in a Safety Surveillance System(Faaizah Arshad, Undergraduate, UCLA) Estimating for Two-Dose Vaccines(Ty Stanford, Data Analyst/Bioinformatician, University of South Australia) Comparison of Performance Across Methods(Martijn Schuemie, Research Fellow, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research and Development) Our colleague within the EHDEN Consortium recently announced a total of 41 data partner have been selected in our latest open call for data partners. These 41 applications, which came from 55 eligible applications, were selected by the EHDEN Data Source Prioritisation Committee. Combined, the 41 selected data partner represent over 78 million patient records, originating from various care settings. This open call had a focus on country minimally represented in the current EHDEN network, and with this current call, we now have data partner in 7 new countries: Greece, Bulgaria, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Secondly, the oncology focus wa a huge success with 12 new data partner having a focus on oncology while we also welcome several new data partner with a focus on Diabetes Mellitus. EHDEN look forward to all the new Data Partners joining with the 60 Data Partners across the 16 country from our prior three calls. Following the harmonization process, the EHDEN data network will have 98 total data partner across 22 nations. COVID vaccine surveillance effort are a global priority, but safety monitoring for vaccine should not reflect a single global population. The largest international network study ever completed on the background rate of adverse event of special interest (AESI) being monitored in vaccine surveillance effort identified that these rate vary substantially by age, sex, and database. Led by researcher at Oxford University, Columbia University, Erasmus MC, UCLA, and Janssen, an international team of collaborator within the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) network provided a timely reference of the background rate of AESIs in the recent study published June 14 by The BMJ. There were significant difference in the observed rate of AESIs based on the age group and sex of more than 126 million people across four continent and 13 total database in this observational study. Furthermore, difference were observed across people in distinct databases. While fatality wa fortunately rare, complication including hospitalization, hypoxemia and pneumonia were more frequent in child and adolescent either diagnosed or hospitalized with COVID-19 than with seasonal influenza. Furthermore, labored breathing, loss of smell and gastrointestinal issue were more prevalent symptom for younger people inflicted with COVID-19 than with influenza. These findings, along with that of significant treatment heterogeneity for children/adolescents hospitalized with COVID-19, were presented in the study , published May 28 by Pediatrics. Early in the pandemic, opinion around the COVID-19 impact on child and adolescent ranged from it being no more than the common flu to fear of it potential impact on lesser-developed immune systems. This OHDSI global network study compared the real-world observational data of more than 242,000 children/adolescents diagnosed and nearly 10,000 hospitalized with COVID-19 to more than 2,000,000 diagnosed with influenza across five country (France, Germany, South Korea, Spain, United States) to provide a clearer picture of it impact. Collaborators from PIONEER, EHDEN and OHDSI came together during a five-day stretch in March to investigate the natural history and outcome of prostate cancer patient managed with watchful waiting, a conservative management option for prostate cancer patient with a life expectancy of le than 10 year at time of diagnosis. The patient disease is watched for development of local or systemic progression until they require palliative treatment (care that make a disease or it symptom le severe or unpleasant but without removing the cause), with the intention being to maintain quality of life. The aim of this study-a-thon wa to ass selection criterion and long-term outcome of prostate cancer patient on watchful waiting by using an international network of real-world data spanning the year watchful waiting ha been a recognized prostate cancer management approach. Output from that study-a-th0n, a well a ongoing work in this important research topic, . Many of the exciting advancement within our global OHDSI community were presented recently at an Asia-Pacific (APAC) community call, when representative from the six different APAC regional chapter (Australia, China, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan) provided update on both their recent accomplishment and upcoming missions. The recording of that call , while a summary can be found . The APAC community call take place every other week within our MS Teams environment, and the recording . Information for how to join the calls, or any of our regional chapters, are available on that page. While there wa extensive use of drug repurposing throughout the first 10 month of the COVID-19 pandemic, there wa substantial heterogeneity over the type of drug used for treatment purpose globally. Some drugs, including hydroxychloroquine, saw sharp decline in use, while adjunctive therapy grew into a more relied upon method for patient management. In a number of cases, scientific discovery overturned misconception proclaimed via press conference and social media. The OHDSI network study , published May 11 by The BMJ, provides a global view of drug utilization in routine practice of more than 303,000 hospitalized patient from China, South Korea, Spain and the United States. The study highlight the need for future research on the safety and efficacy of the more commonly used treatments. Evan Minty is a general internist and clinical assistant professor at the OBrien Institute for Public Health at the University of Calgary, Canada. He split his time between clinical practice, applied clinical informatics with Alberta Health Services (supporting their EMR deployment and decision support development) and research interest in clinical and EMR data science. Evan completed his undergraduate degree in Biophysics at the University of British Columbia, his MSc in Physics at the University of Alberta, his MD and General Internal Medicine residency and fellowship training at the University of Calgary, and his MSc in Biomedical Informatics through Stanford University. He remains onboarded through Stanford University a a research affiliate. He is an active member of the OHDSI community and is in the early stage of developing a Surgery and Perioperative Medicine Workgroup. He discus that, a well a how he joined the community, how OHDSI impacted his COVID patient management in the last year, and more in this edition of the OHDSI Collaborator Spotlight. The EHDEN Consortium announced it fourth open call to all data custodian of electronic health records, claims, hospital and registry data across Europe to join in the goal of standardizing more than 100 million patient record to the OMOP common data model. EHDEN is currently working with 61 data partner following it first three open calls, and it ha 26 small-to-medium enterprise (with more expected this year after a recent SME call) trained to work with the data partner in mapping the data to OMOP. Data Partners can benefit from up to a maximum of 100,000 funding towards this mission, and this open call ha an overall budget of 5 million. The current open call will run fromApril 15toMay 13. More information on EHDEN can be found , and more detail on this fourth open call for data partner on. HADES is a set of 20 open-source R package that have been developed within the OHDSI community to aid observational research. Certain factor for the success of an open-science community like OHDSI are more obvious than others. When hundred of people come together to research a common cause, or study are run against million of patient record in a global database, it becomes clear that something impactful is happening. One critical factor in OHDSIs ability to perform rigorous, ground-breaking analysis lie under the surface, but it hold an equally important role in the overall community mission. A core foundation for OHDSI is open-source software development, and a small group of community collaborators, led by Martijn Schuemie, ha generated a collection of analytics tool that enable research both in and out of the OHDSI community. HADES the Health Analytics Data-to-Evidence Suite is a set of 20 open-source R package for large scale analytics, including population characterization, population-level causal effect estimation, and patient-level prediction, a well a supporting package that are critical throughout the journey of observational research. The package offer a robust set of function that together can be used to perform all the step required to conduct a network study, from connecting to a database, translating query into the appropriate SQL dialect, generating cohort and extracting features, fitting large-scale statistical models, compiling result for meta-analysis and empirical calibration, and enabling exploration through interactive visualization dashboards. Six OHDSI network study were presented during an April call to both inform the community about either ongoing or recently completed global research efforts, a well a calling for collaborator to join in these studies. These 6-minute breakdown were recorded and posted to the OHDSI YouTube channel, and all presentation are available below. (Seng Chan You) (Jenny Lane) (Carmen Olga-Torre) (Aki Nishimura) (Xintong Li) (Martijn Schuemie) Vaccine surveillance is a subject of global interest currently, and the OHDSI community ha joined the conversation through it work with the FDA BEST program.The March 23 OHDSI Community Call featured a presentation on the community work with the FDA BEST program to support it mission to conduct safety and effectiveness surveillance of biologic product (vaccines, blood and blood products, tissue and advanced therapeutics). Discussion topic included:FDA BEST Overview; Research Methods Development Incidence Rates for Vaccine Safety(George Hripcsak); FDA Workshops and Seminar Series (David Madigan); Research Methods Development Small Sample Meta-Analysis (Marc Suchard); and Training and Engagement (Rita Kukafka). Both the full video presentation and slide deck . Seng Chan You is a medical doctor who majored in internal medicine from Severance Hospital in Seoul, South Korea. He received his Master of Medical Science at the same university, and then he earned his PhD in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Ajou University, and he ha been a leader in the OHDSI community over the last several years. Honored with the 2018 OHDSI Titan Award for Clinical Application, Chan ha led the expansion of the OHDSI network into the Asia-Pacific (APAC) region, including hosting the 2019 OHDSI Korea Symposium and assisting in the development of the 2020 OHDSI APAC Symposium. Chan, a leader in several OHDSI workgroups, recently led the effort to have South Korean HIRA data available to the OHDSI global community during the COVID-19 study-a-thon. He c0-led the study which wa published in JAMA in October 2020, and ha co-authored many OHDSI network studies, including the published . Chan recently accepted a new position a a Research Assistant Professor at his alma mater. He recently shared thought on this new role, OHDSIs growth in the Asia-Pacific region, leading the COVID-19 data sharing efforts, and plenty more in the latest edition of the OHDSI Collaborator Spotlight. and thenetwork today announced a collaboration to address the sharing and tracking of data in the healthcare and research industry by creating a single common data model. The organization will integrate HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) and OHDSIs Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) common data model to achieve this goal. The organization will align their standard to capture data in a clearly defined way into a single common data model. This will allow clinician a well a researcher to pull data from multiple source and compile it in the same structure without degradation of the information. This endeavor ha global implication with the potential to permit the clinical community to define the element they need, package and share them in a consistent single structure. We are excited to have the OHDSI community join this partnership with HL7 to evolve community standard around observational research and clinical care, said George Hripcsak, MD, MS, OHDSIs coordinating center director. These standard set the foundation for our mission of global, open-science research, and this partnership will accelerate the development of effective and safe treatment for disease facing today global population. HL7 International CEO Dr. Charles Jaffe, M.D., Ph.D., underscored the significance of this partnership. The Covid-19 pandemic ha emphasized the need to share global health and research data. He continued, Collaboration with OHDSI is critical to solving this challenge and will help our mutual vision of a world in which everyone can securely access and use the right data when and where they need it. OHDSI research on COVID-19, which began with a memorable global study-a-thon last March, continues to progress in various way throughout the world. Leaders in three of the largest network study on the disease joined the Feb. 23 OHDSI community call to provide update on these projects. Kristin Kostka (IQVIA), Dani Prieto-Alhambra (University of Oxford) and George Hripcsak (Columbia University) gave presentation on ongoing work in both Project CHARYBDIS and SCYLLA, a well a OHDSIs work with the FDA on the safety and effectiveness surveillance of the COVID-19 vaccines. Videos and slide from each of the presentation are available or on . The European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) consortium continues to open new possibility for observational health research by establishing a community of data partner and small to medium enterprise (SMEs) that collaborate to build a federated data network of European database to the OMOP common data model. Peter Rijnbeek and Nigel Hughes, two leader within the EHDEN community, joined the Feb. 16 OHDSI community call to provide an overview of EHDEN, a well a share several recent update and discus 2021 objective for the consortium. The EHDEN and OHDSI community have worked closely on many projects, including a free, virtual training program called the EHDEN Academy, developed within the OHDSI/EHDEN community to assist those who hope to engage in this important work. Slides from the, and the is available a well. Prostate cancer is a major disease affecting more than two million men in Europe alone, and ha now become the most common cancer in men. Clinical management of this complex disease is challenging and involves difficult trade-offs, since prostate cancer consists of a spectrum of disease ranging from low-risk to very aggressive forms. Therefore, doctor and patient have to make difficult decision on how to treat the disease and, in some cases, on whether or not to treat the disease, which also involves risk. Unfortunately, there is still surprisingly little data at scale on what the natural history (progression of the disease in absence of treatment) is and how co-morbidities (other life-threatening medical conditions) influence the life expectancy of patient diagnosed with prostate cancer. It would greatly aid shared-decision making between clinician and patient to have a better understanding of which patient will pas away a a result of prostate cancer versus other causes, to establish where treatment would be most effective, and to avoid unnecessary intervention for patients. To achieve this clinician and researcher from OHDSI, EHDEN and PIONEER are joining force in a virtual study-a-thon (March 8-12, 2021) to explore the natural history of prostate cancer in a large dataset of patient from across the globe. The aim of the study-a-thon is to support clinician and researcher with better data on the possible outcome of different treatment option and to explore the potential to generate and validate more accurate prediction algorithm based on data from the US, Europe and other part of the globe. You can . Jenny Lane studied medicine at Exeter College, University of Oxford, where she wa awarded Scholar status. She undertook basic surgical training in London, during which she graduated with distinction from a Masters in Surgical Education, Imperial College London. She returned to Oxford a NIHR Academic Clinical Fellow in Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery in 2014; in 2017, she wa awarded Versus Arthritis Clinical Research and MRC Doctoral Training Fellowships to undertake DPhil study in NDORMS, University of Oxford. She currently work with Professors Dominic Furniss, Jane Green and Dani Prieto-Alhambra exploring the Epidemiology of Common Hand Conditions. Jennys introduction to OHDSI took place in the Barcelona study-a-thon on rheumatoid arthritis, and she is enthusiastic about comparing UK data with other countries, in order to explore difference in surgeon, hospital and healthcare factor that may impact outcome from surgery. She wa the co-lead author of the first published OHDSI paper to come from the COVID19 study-a-thon, entitled , which wa published in The Lancet Rheumatology. She earned a 2020 Titan Award for Clinical Application, and she reflects on her journey to OHDSI and all that took place in 2020 in the latest edition of the OHDSI Collaborator Spotlight. The CHARYBDIS Project (Characterizing Health Associated Risks, and Your Baseline Disease In SARS-COV-2) had two goal when it wa created in the month followingin late March. 1) Describe the baseline demographics, clinical characteristics, treatments, symptom and outcome of interest among individual with COVID-19 overall and stratified by sex, age and specific comorbidities 2) Describe characteristic and outcome of influenza patient between September 2017 and April 2018 compared to the COVID-19 population Building on a study led by Ed Burn and published by Nature Communications entitled , which generated real-world evidence on the natural disease history of COVID-19, CHARYBDIS co-leads Talita Duarte-Salles, Albert Prats-Uribe and Kostka led a community-wide effort to investigate deeper. The full scope of the project, from it global data network to it multiple studies, a well a it next iteration a CHARYBDIS 2.0, is included in this feature. While the COVID-19 pandemic left the world searching for answer during the earliest stage of the pandemic, one immediate healthcare concern regarded the use of certain antihypertensives, and whether they posed increased risk to patient dealing with hypertension. Evidence, generated by global collaborator within the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community and, found that there wa no increased risk of COVID-19 diagnosis, hospitalization, or subsequent complication for user of either angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARBs) among an international cohort of more than 1.3 million patient using antihypertensives. This real-world evidence, generated through open-science approaches, support recent regulatory and clinical recommendation that patient should not discontinue ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy due to concern of increased COVID-19 risk. A critical aspect of the EHDEN project is for it to collaborate with data partners, such a hospitals, primary care providers, network of both, regional datasets, claim database and cohorts, with a view to harmonizing their clinical data locally to a common data model. Key to the success of the collaboration is the support of federated research via standardized analytical tools. EHDEN, within the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), is a public-private partnership responding to the need to improve our speed to answer in real-world research. To this end, it ha been creating a federated network, in collaboration with Data Partners, Small-to-Medium Size Enterprises (SMEs), theframework and network, researchers, regulatory authority and many others. The EHDEN project is very pleased to announce the following 27 new Data Partners have been selected in our third open call for data partners. Collectively, our Data Partner Network now ha 62 Data Partners, covering sixteen country and have greater than 200 million anonymized patient health record that are being mapped to the common data model. Researchers within the Observational Health Data Services and Informatics (OHDSI) community were recently awarded a $10 million contract from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to provide support to the Biologics Effectiveness and Safety (BEST) program, which wa launched by the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) in 2017. The lead research team, primarily comprised of OHDSI personnel from Columbia University, UCLA, and Northeastern University, will provide support to the BEST system in it mission to conduct safety and effectiveness surveillance of biologic product (vaccines, blood and blood products, tissue and advanced therapeutics). Specific mean of FDA support through this grant will include serving in a convening role to 1) develop method related to using observational data from electronic health record and administrative claim to study the effectiveness and safety of biologics, 2) work collaboratively with FDA staff to plan, develop, coordinate, host and convene meeting and workshops, and 3) educate FDA staff and external stakeholder on the BEST infrastructure, capabilities, and application that serve FDA and stakeholder needs. Ticagrelor, when compared with clopidogrel, wa not associated with better outcome for patient with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) treated with percutaneous coronary intervention in contemporary routine clinical practice according to a study published recently by the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community. These finding raise doubt about current clinical guideline for ACS treatment, which recommend ticagrelor over clopidogrel based on the finding of a single large sponsor-initiated clinical trial, PLATO, which wa published in 2009. This global network study, which included more than 60,000 patient with acute coronary syndrome who underwent PCI from two United States electronic health record-based database and one nationwide South Korean database, is intended to provide greater detail about the characteristic of patient suffering from the disease, and also to help inform decision-making around the care of patient with ACS. The study wa published Oct. 27, 2020 byJAMA. Sarah Seager The 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium brought together a global research community for 18 hour of open science, international collaboration and community fun on Oct. 19. The day included presentation from community members, panel that brought together leader from a variety of major healthcare organizations, a well a network sessions, the annual collaborator showcase, and plenty more. for complete update from the day, and follow the OHDSI Twitter and LinkedIn feed for the #OHDSISocialShowcase, which will highlight all presentation from the 2020 Collaborator Showcase. Patients hospitalized with COVID-19 were more likely male, younger, and, in both the US and Spain, had fewer comorbidities and lower medication use than hospitalized influenza patient according to a recent study published by the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community. This global network study, which included more than 34,000 COVID-19 patient from across three continents, is intended to provide greater detail about the characteristic of patient suffering from the disease, and also to help inform decision-making around the care of hospitalized patients. The study Deep phenotyping of 34,128 adult patient hospitalized with COVID-19 in an international network study wa published Oct. 6 by Nature Communications and. Patients hospitalized with COVID-19 were more typically male in the US and Spain, but more often female in South Korea. The age of patient varied, but in Spain and the US, the most common age group were between 60 to 75. Patients hospitalized with influenza were typically older than those hospitalized with COVID-19, and more likely to be female. Leaders from around the healthcare community will share their insight during a panel discussion entitled Building Trust: Evidence and it Communication during a highlight event of the, which will be held Oct. 19, 2020. The panel will be held at 1 pm ET during the symposium, which is free for all attendees. This panel is scheduled to include: Amy Abernethy, MD, PhD, the Principal Deputy Commissioner of the U.S. FDA Patti Brennan, RN, PhD, the Director of the National Library of Medicine, NIH Magdalena Skipper, PhD, Editor in Chief, Nature Deborah Nelson, JD, Associate Professor of Investigative Journalism, University of Maryland Roni Caryn Rabin, MS, science reporter for the New York Times George Hripcsak, MD, MS, Professor of Biomedical Informatics at Columbia University, will serve a moderator for this panel, which will take place at 1 pm ET during the main symposium The OHDSI community will welcome both network veteran and newcomer from all part of the world to join in an 18-hour celebration of open science, international collaboration, and community fun on Monday, Oct. 19 during the 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium. Part of a four-day event that will include both aon Oct. 18 andon Oct. 20-21, the global symposium will include many of the event that OHDSI veteran look forward to each year at the annual symposium and a few surprise a well. The symposium will be held virtually over Microsoft Teams, and. Once again, there is no charge to attending the OHDSI Symposium. Starting at midnight ET, our international community will have the opportunity to experience the full excitement of our 2020 symposium. Our Asia-Pacific collaborator will start in the afternoon, while the early riser in Europe can get a jump on their day with the state of the community address. As the symposium continues through the day, our European friend can enjoy panel discussions, poster session and a game show in the evening a our North American collaborator are in the middle of their symposium journey! Mui Van Zandt discussed the incredible growth of OHDSI in Asia during the 2019 Symposium. is a Director of Product Development at IQVIA, and she manages the OMOP Factory. Muis area of expertise include software development, data conversions, agile process, and project management. Mui ha gained extensive knowledge working on large patient database in the OMOP model and the standard vocabulary that are needed to support these conversions. Mui is an active contributor to the community through various OHDSI working groups. She is one of the co-leaders of the China OMOP CDM/Vocabulary working group. She lead two of the sub-working group within the THEMIS working group. She ha and continues to perform OMOP tutorial training to many different organization and conferences, such a the OHDSI Symposiums, the China Hackathons, and individual universities. A veteran of the OHDSI community, Mui recently shared some thought on her journey with the community, her work on the CDM and vocabularies, OHDSI progress, and more during the latest edition of the Collaborator Spotlight. Podcast: Jenny Lane on the OHDSI Hydroxychloroquine Study Jenny Lane, co-lead author of the recently published , discussed the study and the 2020 journey of hydroxychloroquine during the debut episode of the OHDSI podcast, which is available below, a well a on Apple Podcasts, Podbean and other podcast apps. Lane open with a discussion on everything that went into the study, which wa generatedin March, but she also talk about her own personal connection to hydroxychloroquine and it connection with rheumatoid arthritis, a well a the early clinical and methodological impact of the study during it preprint stage. She also discus how open science and collaboration impacted this global study, and she provided insight on a recent OHDSI preprint she led, a study on the risk of depression, suicide and other psychological impact in hydroxychloroquine treatment. You can read. You can listen to the podcast below. Following a brief introduction, Jenny Lane join the podcast at the 1:55 mark. Evidence derived from existing health-care data, such a administrative claim and electronic health records, can fill evidence gap in medicine. However, many claim such data cannot be used to estimate causal treatment effect because of the potential for observational study bias; for example, due to residual confounding. Other concern includePhacking and publication bias. In response, an international group of OHDSI collaborator launched the Large-scale Evidence Generation and Evaluation across a Network of Databases (LEGEND) research initiative. Its mission is to generate evidence on the effect of medical intervention using observational health-care database while addressing the aforementioned concern by following a recently proposed paradigm. We define 10 principle of LEGEND that enshrine this new paradigm, prescribing the generation and dissemination of evidence on many research question at once; for example, comparing all treatment for a disease for many outcomes, thus preventing publication bias. These question are answered using a prespecified and systematic approach, avoidingPhacking. Best-practice statistical method address measured confounding, and control question (research question where the answer is known) quantify potential residual bias. Finally, the evidence is generated in a network of database to ass consistency by sharing open-source analytics code to enhance transparency and reproducibility, but without sharing patient-level information. . Our companion paper highlight an example study on the effect of hypertension treatments, and evaluates the internal and external validity of the evidence we generate. The combination of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZM) ha been linked to significant cardiovascular risks, including mortality, in the largest safety study ever performed on both HCQ and HCQ+AZM. This network study, led by the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics community, wa recently published in Lancet Rheumatology. In patient with rheumatoid arthritis, HCQ treatment in the short term (30 days) wa found to not carry an excess risk of complication associated with it use, but HCQ treatment in the long term had a 65% relative increase in cardiovascular-related mortality, compared to sulfasalazine. HCQ + AZM had a cardiovascular mortality risk that wa more than twice (2.19) a high a the comparative treatment even in the short term based on finding from more than 320,000 user of that combination therapy. This treatment also produced a 15-20% increased rate of angina/chest pain and heart failure. The full paper. An international cohort of OHDSI collaborator obtained a grant from the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator to lead an effort to compare the effectiveness of treatments, including corticosteroid such a dexamethasone, under current evaluation for COVID-19 across an international observational data network. The Therapeutics Accelerator is an initiative launched by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome, and Mastercard to speed up the response to the COVID-19 pandemic by identifying, assessing, developing, and scaling up treatments. Researchers from the University of Oxford, Columbia University, UCLA and Erasmus University Medical Center are leading this work through(SARS-Cov-2 Large-scale Longitudinal Analyses), one of the emerging effort to come from OHDSIs global work surrounding COVID-19 research. We are so appreciative that the donor of the Therapeutics Accelerator support our work around studying the effectiveness and safety of potential COVID-19 medicines, say Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Professor of Pharmaco- and Device Epidemiology at Oxford and co-PI on the project. Their funding will help u learn which treatment are showing potential throughout an international cohort of patients. Every ounce of knowledge is a building block that will eventually lead u out of this global crisis. Anthony Sena is an Associate Director of Epidemiology Analytics at Janssen Research and Development where he architect software solution and data platform for the analysis and application of observational data sources. Anthonys area of expertise include web application development, data modeling, information visualization, technology infrastructure, project management, and informatics. A collaborator onand one of the co-leads of the, he ha taken a prominent role in the recent, a characterization study to understand the disease natural history of COVID-19. His focus is on expanding the capability of the OHDSI open-source solution architecture to enable transparent and reproducible research using observational data. Prior to joining Janssen Research and Development, Anthony held many leadership and technical role of increasing responsibility across a range of business sector including energy, pharmaceuticals, retail and financial services. He recently discussed his journey to OHDSI, his work with open-source tools, and some of his most important projects, during the latest Collaborator Spotlight. The European Medicines Agency recently announcedan infrastructure to support the monitoring of theand safety of COVID-19 treatment and vaccine when used in day-to-day clinical practice. The EMA will work with on this initiative to establish a European framework and research network for the conduct of multicenter cohort study on the use of medicine in COVID-19 patients. This will be a one-year EMA-funded project, which includes data source from eight European country standardized to the OMOP-Common Data Model, and is contracted to IQVIA a the coordinating partner. OHDSI and EHDEN leader from both the Erasmus Medical Center and the University of Oxford will help drive this important work. This is precisely what EHDEN wa set up for, say Peter Rijnbeek, associate professor at Erasmus. We are creating an international, open science network in Europe, based on a common data model, standardized analytics, tools, and methodologies. Its exciting to participate in this project and further strengthen our collaboration with the EMA. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) provided guidance for scientific best practice in observational research in the recently released 8th revision of it guidelines. This work aligns withOHDSIs mission, and our global community wa proud to see multiple OHDSI efforts, including a pair of COVID-19 studies, have informed and supported their recommendations. The foreword in highlighted a pair of community preprints currently undergoing peer review. Though the 2020 European Symposium wa canceled and replaced with the COVID-19 Study-A-Thon, many community member still shared their research that had been accepted for the Collaborators Showcase. Those posters, along with abstract and other links, were highlighted over the OHDSI social platforms, and . This research come from around the world and highlight the breadth and variety of OHDSI research in a pre-COVID world. The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) collaboration released a preprint entitled Renin-angiotensin system blocker and susceptibility to COVID-19: a multinational open science cohort study. Preprints are preliminary report of work that have not been certified by peer review. They should not be relied on to guide clinical practice or health-related behavior and should not be reported in news medium a established information. The preprint i. There wa no clear increased risk of COVID-19 diagnosis, hospitalization, or subsequent complication found for user of either angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEs) or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARBs) among a multinational cohort of more than 1.1 million patient using antihypertensives. This study, the most comprehensive one to date of COVID-19 susceptibility risk for antihypertensive users, examined electronic health record from a trio of data source from the United States and Spain (Columbia University Irving Medical Center, the Department of Veteran Affairs and SIDIAP) to conduct a systematic cohort study of ACE, ARB, calcium channel blocker (CCB) and thiazide diuretic (THZ) users. We currently lack reliable, transparent and generalizable evidence to inform antihypertensive choice in light of COVID-19, saysDr. Marc Suchard, a professor at UCLA and research team leader. This work strives to openly and reproducibly leverage real-world data to help. As a consequence, the study, powered by open-source tool and global collaboration within the OHDSI community, reinforces current clinical guideline surrounding antihypertensive therapy. The finding indicate that patient should continue their ACE or ARB therapy, despite early concern about potential risks. Furthermore, the finding showed no clinical reason to switch from an ARB to ACE to minimize COVID-19 risk. Based on our results, if there is a risk difference, it marginal and would be very challenging to further refine outside such a large-scale international study, Dr. Suchard says. The International COVID-ACE Receptor Inhibition Utilization and Safety (ICARIUS) protocol, code, and result are all available for further exploration at. Kees van Bochove is the founder and CEO of , a 40-person international company dedicated to the support and facilitation of open source, open standards, and open data in biomedical research. He studied Computer Science at the University of Utrecht and Bioinformatics at VU University Amsterdam and Tufts University in Boston. Kees is active in many open-source software development community such a i2b2/tranSMART, cBioPortal, OHDSI, RADAR, Galaxy, etc.Through his many year of experience in open source software and standard development in biomedical informatics, Kees ha gained a deep understanding of all aspect of collaborative open source development and open data science, including open source community building and governance, software quality, and sustainability requirements, data workflows, etc. Kees ha been involved in OHDSI initially via the IMI EMIF project starting in 2013 and ha been building a team around OMOP/OHDSI through the EMIF collaboration, working with a.o. Janssen and ErasmusMC a well a by providing OMOP mapping and OHDSI installation and support service to several pharmaceutical companies. Kees wa also involved in planning the first OHDSI Europe meeting in March 2018, and he hosted a subsequent follow-up workshop to introduce OHDSI to a number of European national health-data initiative (from a.o. The Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, and Denmark) in May 2018. The Hyve is also leading WP4 in the IMI EHDEN project, which is one of the largest component of this important project, laying the technical groundwork and building data conversion and quality management tool for further developing the European and global OHDSI community. (Click the link in the headline for a Q&A with Kees) OHDSI collaborator shared important finding at the recent 2020 EULAR E-Congress, held June 3-6, 2020. It wa an honor for our team to share our finding at the 2020 EULAR Congress, said , who led the Barcelona Study-A-Thon, and who also served on the EULAR Congress Programme Committee. The experience in Barcelona wa an enjoyable event, but the real-world study and finding generated from that week can have a powerful impact on the field of rheumatology, and we couldnt be prouder of that. Posters, slide and Cynthia Yangs oral presentation can all be found . The first Patient-Level Prediction paper ha been sent to MedRxiv and is being submitted for peer review. This study is designed to inform individual behavioral choice and help design shielding strategy during de-confinement. Led by co-first author Ross Williams and Aniek Markus, the team designed a nine-predictor COVID-19 Estimated Risk (COVER) model that wa validated using more than 43,000 COVID patient (following initial development and validation using more than 6.8 million patient with influenza or flu-like symptoms). This model predicts hospitalization, intensive services, and death, and can help provide reassurance for low-risk patients, while shielding high-risk patients, a many start to enter the de-confinement stage of the pandemic. Peter Rijnbeek is the corresponding author, and both he and Jenna Reps are co-last authors. Overall there are 43 author involved in the study, once again highlighting the global collaborative nature of the OHDSI community. Congratulations to all who were involved in this work. Kristin Kostka is an Associate Director at IQVIA running the OMOP Data Network and a perennial collaborator in the OHDSI community. In her work, Kristin partner with hospitals, payer and healthcare provider to help organization unlock the power of institutional data and connect with the world largest observational health data network. Kristin ha over 10 year of experience leading real-world evidence generation studies, designing and implementing enterprise patient data lakes, conducting large-scale multinational clinical trial and preparing regularly submissions. Within OHDSI, Kristin sits on the OHDSI Steering Committee, the US Symposium Scientific Committee, the Women of OHDSI group, the OHDSI Study Nurture Committee and regularly lead OHDSI network studies. Kristin co-authored three chapters(,and). Her OHDSI passion project is the idea of study on study evaluating the best way to disseminate evidence once it generated. Kristin currently serf a a member of the OHDSI COVID-19 Study-a-thon Core Team facilitating follow-on work from. She is also a Co-Principal Investigator on Project CHARYBDIS (Characterizing Health Associated Risks, and Your Baseline Disease In SARS-COV-2). Kristin is a recipient of many industry awards, including the 2020 Elon University Young Alumni Council Top 10 Under 10 Alumni Award, a 2018 OHDSI Titan Award for Community Collaboration, a 3-time recipient of Deloitte Outstanding Performance Award and an 8-time recipient of the Deloitte Applause Award for exceptional client service. She hold a Bachelors degree in Exercise Science from Elon University and a Masters in Public Health in Epidemiology from Boston University School of Public Health. (Click the link in the headline for a Q&A with Kristin) The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) collaboration released a preprint on an international characterization of patient hospitalized with COVID-19 and a comparison with those previously hospitalized with influenza. Preprints are preliminary report of work that have not been certified by peer review. They should not be relied on to guide clinical practice or health-related behavior and should not be reported in news medium a established information. The . The characteristic (demographics, prior condition and medication use) of more than 6,800 COVID-positive patient from four database (Columbia, Stanford, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the South Korean Health Insurance Review & Assessment) were reported in this study and were compared to more than 52,000 patient hospitalized with influenza between 2014-19. Compared to 52,422 individual hospitalized with influenza, patient admitted with COVID-19 were more likely male, younger, and, in the US, had fewer comorbidities and lower medication use. The European Health Data & Evidence Network () today announced the launch of the in Europe a an online educational resource for anyone working in the domain of real-world data use, and real-world evidence generation, with the aim of becoming a primary resource. An IMI2 (Innovative Medicines Initiative) EHDEN project, the EHDEN Academys goal is to build upon the foundation of the EHDEN project and it collaboration with the OHDSI community. The EHDEN Academy aim to be a resource for all those who generate and utilize data, work technically with it (e.g. ETL and mapping of data to the OMOP common data model), and are involved in the methodological development and use of standardized analytical tool within the OHDSI framework. As the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic is showing us, the ability to collaborate and work with real-world data is critical to clinical decision-making, planning, and management decisions. As such, EHDEN is responding to the pandemic via it involvement in the OHDSI COVID-19 Virtual Study-a-thon, a COVID-19 Data Partner call, also supporting education in using real-world evidence at this critical time via the EHDEN Academy. The time wa meant for highlighting OHDSI capabilities,not testing them. The hour were meant to sharing global research, not sharing in global research. The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community held a COVID-19 global, virtual study-a-thon March 26-29, believing that a network of people who valued both collaboration and open science could make a meaningful impact on the current global pandemic. How? Nobody wa quite sure in the moment, but they were confident they would figure it out. We chose an ambitious path and relied on our community and infrastructure to lead the way, said. In simple terms, effort within our community over the past 88 month set the foundation for OHDSIs most important and impactful 88 hours. ( on the OHDSI COVID-19 study-a-thon) The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) collaboration released a preprint on preliminary finding from the largest study ever completed on the safety profile of hydroxychloroquine, a drug currently being evaluated a a potential treatment for COVID-19. Preprints are preliminary report of work that have not been certified by peer review. They should not be relied on to guide clinical practice or health-related behavior and should not be reported in news medium a established information. The . The combined short-term use of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin resulted in nearly 60% higher rate of cardiovascular-related mortality (calHR 2.19; (1.22-3.94)) than the combined use of hydroxychloroquine and amoxicillin. While not a high, there wa also an advanced risk for both chest pain/angina (calHR 1.15 (1.05-1.26)) and heart failure (calHR 1.22 (1.02-1.45)) when azithromycin wa added to hydroxychloroquine treatment. These finding were generated from an international database of more than 950,000 user of hydroxychloroquine, including approximately 320,000 who used it in combination with azithromycin. The short-term effect of hydroxychloroquine a a treatment drug wa not found to have an excess risk by itself when compared to sulfasalazine among a large set of patient (950,769 and 306,706, respectively) being treated for rheumatoid arthritis. Patients from five different country (Germany, Japan, Spain, the United State, and the United Kingdom) were included in this study, the first to be shared via preprint from a four-day OHDSI COVID-19 study-a-thon, which brought together a global community to design and execute observational study to generate real-world evidence and help inform the current global pandemic. These are preliminary finding that are currently in the peer-review process. They should not be relied on to guide clinical practice or health-related behavior and should not be reported in news medium a established information. A four-day global collaboration within the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community designed and began executing study on an international set of observational health database (including insurance claim and electronic health records) to aid decision-making during the current COVID-19 pandemic. One study is the first large-scale characterization of COVID-19 patient in both the United States and Asia; six database with COVID-19 patient located in both the U.S. and South Korea already started running data on this project, and other database are being sought to collaborate in this network study. The largest study ever conducted on the safety of hydroxychloroquine wa designed and executed across an international set of databases. This study of more than 130,000 patient from the USA, England, Germany and South Korea focus on the overall safety profile of hydroxychloroquine, a drug currently being evaluated a a potential treatment for COVID-19. The third study designed the first prediction model externally validated on COVID-19 patient to support triage decision in an effort to flatten the curve. This model, which determines which patient presenting with symptom are most likely to require hospitalization, wa developed against US data and then tested on South Korean data. More than 330 people from 30 nation registered to collaborate in this 88-hour virtual study-a-thon, which concluded March 29from multiple study lead to announce both design and preliminary findings. Results are currently being evaluated and paper are actively being submitted to journal for peer review. The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) international community will host a COVID-19 virtual study-a-thon this week (March 26-29) to inform healthcare decision-making in response to the current global pandemic. More than 290 people from 29 different country have registered for the four-day online event, which will be led by researcher from Oxford University, Erasmus Medical Center, Columbia University, UCLA, Ajou University, Janssen Research and Development, and IQVIA, with active participation across government, industry, and academia. Held in lieu of the canceled OHDSI European Symposium, this event is structured to have two main goals: (1) to generate immediate real-world evidence on prioritized question shared by national governments, public health agencies, health-related institutions, and community members; and (2) to design COVID-19-specific study that can be validated and available to run when such data is available. Patients who used copper intrauterine device (Cu IUD) were found to have a lower risk of high-grade cervical neoplasm (cervical cancer) compared to user of the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS), according to. Studies from the 1980s suggested a reduced risk of cervical cancer among woman who used an intrauterine contraceptive, though those study did not differentiate between the varying type of IUDs. Furthermore, much of the data from those study wa collected prior to the availability of most hormonal IUDs (LNG-IUS). Spotnitz noted that the research team hope to lead a network study across other database within the OHDSI network, which span 19 countries, 133 unique database converted to the OMOP CDM, and more than one billion patient records. For more information on the study, , or email him directly at. The 2019 OHDSI Korea Symposium took place Dec. 12-14 at theKonjiam Resort in Gwangju and attracted 330 people to the main symposium on Dec. 13. It wa another great gathering of OHDSI collaborator both veteran and those just starting on the journey to learn from each other, present their own research, and network together. This page includes a photo gallery from the event, a well a video all five session from the main symposium, a well a tutorials. Sessions included an introduction to both OHDSI and EHDEN, multiple presentation on OHDSI Community in Action, and sharing the international experience from the Asian-Pacific Region. Chlorthalidone, the guideline-recommended diuretic for lowering blood pressure, cause more serious side effect than hydrochlorothiazide, a similarly effective diuretic, . The findings, published in JAMA Internal Medicine, contrast with current treatment guideline recommending chlorthalidone over hydrochlorothiazide. The researcher found that patient taking chlorthalidone had nearly three time the risk of developing dangerously low level of potassium and a greater risk of other electrolyte imbalance and kidney problem compared with those taking hydrochlorothiazide. Information from the largest individual database studied by the team revealed that 6.3% of patient treated with chlorthalidone experienced hypokalemia (low blood potassium), compared with 1.9% of patient who were treated with hydrochlorothiazide. Doctors prescribing chlorthalidone should monitor for certain side effect in their patients, say , chair and Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor of Biomedical Informatics at Columbia University and lead author of the study. The prevalence of electronic healthcare data allows researcher the opportunity to study the effect of medical treatments. However, confidence in the result of such observational research is typically low, for example, because different study on the same question often produce conflicting results, even when using the same data. We need to answer the question to what extent can we trust observational research? Led by, OHDSI researcher recently publishedin the Harvard Data Science Review to tackle this important issue. This paper present the OHDSI Methods Benchmark to evaluate five method commonly used in observational research (new-user cohort, self-controlled cohort, case-control, case-crossover, and self-controlled case series designs) over a network of four large database standardized to the OMOP Common Data Model. Using both negative and positive control (questions where the answer is known), a set of metric and open-source software tool developed within the OHDSI community, the research team determined that most commonly used approach to effect-estimation observational study are falling short of expected confidence levels. Selection bias, confounding, and misspecification are among the source of systematic error that plague the validity of potentially important finding within the healthcare community. When Dani Prieto-Alhambradiscussed the Oxford Study-A-Thon at the 2019 U.S. Symposium, he introduced his talk a the conversion of himself and 30-35 colleague to the OMOP Common Data Model and to the OHDSI way of doing things. After sharing the incredible research that would eventually lead to a published study in The Lancet Rheumatology, he didnt wait long to welcome new convert to the OHDSI community. Prieto-Alhambra coordinated the 2020 Barcelona Study-A-Thon on rheumatoid arthritis (RA); you can . He recently discussed several aspect of the study-a-thon with OHDSI.org, and he also touched on , which will be held March 27-29 at Oxford. Abstracts for the Symposium are due Friday, Feb. 14; more information on abstract submission and other area of participation . The OHDSI community ha been a proud collaborator with theEuropean Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) since the EHDEN launch in 2018. An IMI 2 consortium, EHDEN look standardize more than 100 million patient record across Europe from different geographic area and different data source over the coming five years. Mapping of healthcare data to theOMOP-CDMwill facilitate the re-use for a variety of purposes, enhancing and accelerating research and healthcare decision-making for global benefit. To this end, EHDEN will create an SME eco-system in Europe that support data source and other stakeholder in mapping and using data. EHDEN recently announced that it ha launched the second open call for SMEs to apply for training and certification to convert health data from various format to the OMOP common data model. This second open call will run throughout the month of February, concluding on the 29th(17:00 CET). If this prospect interest you,visitfor more detail and to submit your application. The EHDEN Consortium is looking forward to your potential application and to collaborate with you. One year after a similar study-a-thon at Oxford resulted, 40 stakeholder from across industry, academia, and health system representing 10 different nation and 14 observational database gathered to participate in a OHDSI-EHDEN Study-a-thon and run the world largest network study on Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). The Study-a-thon wa held at the Barcelona Biomedical Research Park Jan. 13-17 and focused on three area during the five-day gathering: (1) characterizing drug treatment patterns; (2) developing a population-level effect estimation, examining the comparative safety of first-line Disease Modifying Anti Rheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) for safety profile and multiple adverse outcomes; and (3) creating a patient-level prediction analysis to determine high-risk RA patient for specific adverse outcomes. The OHDSI-EHDEN community conducted observational analysis across a secure, distributed network of electronic health record and insurance claim data, collectively representing more than 1.1 million patient with RA. It wa an honor to collaborate with so many leader in the battle against RA, and I truly believe we made a meaningful difference within one week, said. I am continually amazed at what can be accomplished when you combine invested stakeholder and high-level analytic tool in an open-science setting. As an associate professor at Erasmus Medical Center,appreciates the importance of a strong, effective educational program. He ha been pleased with the early progress of the EHDEN Academy, a program that should provide a broad impact for the OHDSI community once it becomes publicly available in early 2020. The EHDEN Academy, an E-learning environment developed by the EHDEN (European Health Data & Evidence Network) Consortium, wa initially developed to educate SMEs (Small and Medium Enterprises) about the tool and best practice used by both EHDEN and OHDSI. There are five training course Rijnbeek and his EHDEN colleague felt would provide a baseline of knowledge needed to certify a support network to map a growing set of European database to the OMOP common data model. One memorable moment (during a day full of them) at the 2019 OHDSI U.S. Symposium came during Martijn Schuemies talk on best practice within the community. With a significant number of first-timers in the Bethesda North Marriott ballroom that day, Schuemie may have caused a moment of panic for some by noting all the different location collaborator could search to follow the preferred OHDSI methods. The panic quickly turned to celebration. The unveiling ofat the 2019 U.S. Symposium wa the culmination of month of community work, and it serf to provide the community with a central knowledge repository for all aspect of OHDSI. Twenty chapter within five section (the OHDSI Community, Uniform Data Representation, Data Analytics, Evidence Quality, and OHDSI Studies) were written to empower any new researcher with the ability to generate real-world evidence to improve the healthcare community. While OHDSI collaborator continue to seek new and innovative way to train the growing community in the tool and best practice of the network, face-to-face tutorial remain an effective method for educating both newcomer and veterans. During the 2019 OHDSI U.S. Symposium, there were six tutorial held, and you can watch any or all of them now . Use the headline link to get access to all six tutorials, including videos, materials, information and more. The first official OHDSI Korea tutorialwas held Oct. 23 in the Grand Ambassador Seoul, and it served a an important lead event for the upcoming OHDSI Korea Symposium, which take place Dec. 12-14 at the Konjiam Resort in Gyeonggi-Do, Korea. The enthusiasm in the room wa palpable, and the energy that ha been building in Korea should lead to an exciting Symposium. While Korea first started working with OHDSI and the OMOP Common Data Model in 2014, workshop in the country had been limited to smaller Ajou University-sessions within hospitals. This wa the first event that wa formalized by OHDSI collaborator and open to all. There wa a heavy morning focus on how to run a network study, which followed an OHDSI Introduction by Mui Van Zandt. The first-ever OHDSI block of the CS6440 course at Georgia Tech, held over a six-week span this past fall, wa both educational and inspiring, and it reinforced the strength that have carried OHDSI from concept to major player in the real-world analytics ecosystem. The professor felt it from the students, but he felt it himself a well. , an OHDSI veteran who, is Director of Health Informatics at Georgia Tech, home of the largest computer science graduate program in the nation. When he took over the Intro to Health Informatics course in 2018, he decided to introduce population-level analytics to a rising generation of data scientists. The IMI European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) project is pleased to announce the publication of the result of it first study-a-thon inthe effectiveness and safety associated with unicompartmental versus total knee replacement, a milestone after it first year.1 The choice of which type of knee replacement to recommend remains difficult for surgeons, and there remains insufficient information to inform them and patient of the best approach, dependent on the patient personal context. Researchers associated with the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics () network andmet in Oxford for five day in December 2018 to design, analyze and draft a report of the study results. The resulting study emulated to the extent possible, the design of the five year Total or Partial Knee Arthroplasty Trial (TOPKAT). The study-a-thon assessed whether the efficacy result seen in the trial translated into effectiveness in real-world setting and provided further consideration of safety outcome that were too uncommon to ass in TOPKAT. Thiazide diuretic demonstrate better effectiveness and cause fewer side effect than ACE inhibitor a first-line antihypertensive drugs, . The study factor insurance claim data and electronic health record from 4.9 million patient across nine observational databases, making it the most comprehensive one ever on first-line antihypertensives, and it provides additional context to the 2017 guideline for high blood pressure treatment developed by the American College of Cardiology (ACC) and American Heart Association (AHA). Collaborators in the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) network produced the paper Comprehensive comparative effectiveness and safety of first-line antihypertensive drug classes: a systematic, multinational, large-scale analysis a part of the collaboratives ongoing Large-Scale Evidence Generation and Evaluation across a Network of Databases (LEGEND) project, which applies high-level analytics to perform observational research on hundred of million of patient record within OHDSIs international database network. OHDSI researcher believe LEGEND will continue to significantly enhance how real-world evidence is used to study important healthcare question that impact million of patient worldwide. There were more than 80 research highlight presented during the Collaborator Showcase at the 2019 OHDSI U.S. Symposium. For those who couldnt attend, or who want to check out all the OHDSI innovation over the last year, youll have your chance on the OHDSI and platforms. Each weekday, a different poster will be highlighted with an individual URL. Youll be able to check out the poster, a well a other material the author may have included (abstract, software demo, lightning talk, etc.). , PhD, took the stage at the 2019 OHDSI U.S. Symposium and laid out a collection of internet location where potential collaborator could learn about the tool and best practice developed within the community. To an audience that included about 200 first-time attendees, it must have been a daunting moment. That feeling wouldnt last long, a Schuemie followed by reaching under a white cover and pulling out the first version of the Book of OHDSI, the product of a year-long collaborative effort within the community to provide the best documentation for all aspect of OHDSI. Twenty chapter within five section (the OHDSI Community, Uniform Data Representation, Data Analytics, Evidence Quality, and OHDSI Studies) were written to empower any new researcher with the ability to generate real-world evidence to improve the healthcare community. For those who didnt attend the Symposium, a HTML, a well a EPUB and PDF (click the small download icon at the top). Anybody who want an actual copy of the book can order it at cost price. The fifth annual OHDSI Symposium wa a tremendous success. From the insightful talk and impressive poster presentation on Monday to the spectacular Women in Real-World Analytics Leadership Forum and the six tutorials, there is no shortage of important material that is now available from this event (including video of all speech and tutorials, a well a slide from the presentations). The page also includes video and photo recap from the weekend, a well a the virtual collaborator showcase, which highlight more than 80 poster and software demo from the event. Using real-world evidence to meaningfully impact the healthcare community will be the prevailing theme Sept. 15-17 . Collaborators from around the world will discus both the direction of the OHDSI community, a well a some of it most important research achievement of the past year, in the highlight event on the OHDSI calendar. The symposium take place , and for the first time, it will include , hosted Sunday night by the Women of OHDSI. This free event, which is open to all symposium attendee (), will feature four prominent leader in the real-world analytics community (, Violanda Grigorescu, Janet Woodcock, and ), each of whom will share thought on their own journey, where they see this emerging discipline headed, and how OHDSI collaborator can improve healthcare in the future. There ha been interest recently in developing new working group within the OHDSI community, but many have wondered what it take to actually start a new working group. This wa addressed previously , but we wanted to share the step with you again. An OHDSI working group represents a group of OHDSI collaborator who hold regular meeting with the purpose of developing shared solution to tackle a common problem or address a knowledge/technology gap.A group of collaborator aiming to complete a network research study can be considered a study working groupand are encouraged to follow these guidelines. Constructing phenotype algorithm (PAs) is a primary method for both defining disease and identifying subject at risk for disease in observational research. While the role of PAs is crucial for effective, reproducible research, the ability to complete detailed PA evaluation ha traditionally been limited due to both cost and efficiency. Lead author provided a potential solution to this challenge in , published in the latest issue of the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Utilizing tool within the OHDSI Network, the research team developed a method that showed promise for reliable phenotype evaluation without reliance on manual review of patient data. Traditional method of identifying phenotype over varied network of electronic health record (EHR) database is challenging. The recently published paper in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics demonstrated success in creating a systematic process for sharing disease definitionsknown a phenotypesacross a network using the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) OMOP Common Data Model, which could lead to dramatic improvement in the ability to study disease in the future. , the co-PI of the OHDSI Coordinating Center at Columbia University, served a lead author for a paper that demonstrated an efficient alternative to phenotype sharing that allows for rapid exchange and execution across different medical centers, improving the speed and reproducibility of the research process. The 2019 China Symposium introduced top scholars, practioners, researcher and more to the potential of OHDSI collaboration. The annual OHDSI China Symposium, which took place June 27-29 at Shanghai Jiaotong University, reinforced the impressive potential of the OHDSI network via the collaboration of multiple, motivated stakeholders. Attendees of the symposium included expert and scholar from major university in China, medical information-related practitioner of various medical and health institutions, medical-related scientific research personnel, and worker interested in big data in the pharmaceutical industry. The symposium led off with a pair of keynote addresses, including one entitled FEEDERNET: Evolution of Distributed Research Network in Korea by OHDSI collaborator . Park is a top advocate for the development of OHDSI in Korea, and his presentation helped demonstrate the unique possibility of the network. OHDSI collaborated with the Oxford Summer School session for a tutorial on tool and a one-day study. The boundless potential to create real-world evidence through OHDSI wa demonstrated for a second time in a many weeks, a collaborator from both side of the Atlantic met in England during the Real World Epidemiology: Oxford Summer School session. and led the June 27 session on the OMOP common data model, OHDSI, and the analytical use case of patient-level prediction. Rijnbeek and Ryan supported the mission of OHDSI collaborator and Oxford professor Dani Prieto-Alhambra. The previous week, Rijnbeek and Ryan supported OHDSI collaborator and (CSS). It wa great to have OHDSI join our summer school, Prieto-Alhambra said. Forty people jaw dropped whilst learning what can be achieved through open science, community and a common data model! 2024 powered by Top | | | Collaborator Spotlights OHDSI collaborator spotlight highlight member of our community and show both the energy within OHDSI, a well a the breadth of work happening around the world. Please read some of our spotlights, and be on the lookout for more in the coming months! Atif Adam While my time in the OHDSI community is relatively brief, the environment struck a chord with me immediately. What stand out is how the community welcome expertise from myriad backgrounds. Whether youre a seasoned researcher, a data scientist, a clinician, or even someone just starting in healthcare analytics, OHDSI is a platform where different level of familiarity converge to nurture actionable knowledge. Thamir AlShammary What make OHDSI unique is it way of conducting trustworthy research and taking care of every detail, from the research idea through validating the data and selecting the best methodological design. I would love to see more involvement of OHDSI in many conference in the Middle East and west of Asia to make people aware of OHDSI and all tools, practices, and experiences. A main advantage of OHDSI that country should be aware of is the community itself the different expertise, sharing knowledge, working together, and helping each other are example of the beauty of this community. Faaizah Arshad Research allows me to exercise clinical thinking skill in way college class dont. Research give you a broader and deeper understanding of any field. Especially in OHDSI, research is interdisciplinary, so you are not only learning the science underlying certain diseases, but also how to code with data, how to standardize and improve quality of data, how to do predictive modeling and estimation, how to characterize populations, how to reproduce evidence. Youre developing a skill set. OHDSI changed the way I think about participant in healthcare: Ive gained an overwhelming appreciation for everyones expertise. Clair Blacketer One of the thing I love about OHDSI is that there is very little ego involved. No one person work is more important than the other; when we bring our expertise and knowledge together we create something truly great that ha the potential to transform the field of observational health research. Alison Callahan Seeing the power of OHDSI network study across multiple data source and health systems, having the opportunity to contribute to the design of reproducible research methods, and the many amazing people Ive met through this community, have kept me coming back. Montse Camprubi One of the major [EHDEN] accomplishment over the last year ha been all the activity around evidence generation, with several studyathons organised. These have proven to be very informative activity for the participating data partners, many of whom were sharing standardised data for the first time. Alexander Davydov I do know these people, the people of OHDSI who daily move the community forward. I know how they love to work together. Ive seen the result of this work, which are impressive. I believe in OHDSI because I believe in the people, their commitment and devotion, and their effective collaboration that is gradually changing the world for the better. Mengling 'Mornin' Feng I met Rae Woong Park from Ajou University at a conference and learned that he wa the pioneer in clinical data standardization in South Korea. We chatted for hour about how his team ha successfully implemented the OMOP CDM a the standard data schema for research clinical data and how that may have accelerated the clinical research in Korea. Inspired by his success, I learned more about OHDSI and it platforms, tool and organizations. I began to advocate for OHDSI a the data standard and consortium that we should follow a a country to our Ministry of Health and major healthcare institutes. Davera Gabriel As the COVID pandemic still loom large in our rear-view, a sense of urgency to generate and apply advanced scientific method to public health issue remains palpable to me. I believe the OMOP + FHIR partnership provides a focused, high-ROI opportunity to create relevant informatics advance with broad impact that will allow u to better address immediate and future health crises, both local and global. Kerry Goetz OHDSI ha been amazing for giving me idea on what to work on throughout my PhD journey, including class project and my thesis. I have floated in and out of several working group to see where there might be potential project idea or mentor for my research. As an informatics student, one of the huge barrier is access to a source of significant data that is fit for purpose. The OHDSI community is a great resource and is very collaborative. Asieh Golozar There is a lot of energy and good will in the community. It is open, inclusive, and extremely diverse. I get my energy from the community. The enthusiasm and drive to do the right thing and to improve human life and the possibility to work with such diverse group of individual and learn from them excites me and push me to do more. I am extremely proud to be a part of this effort. Chungsoo Kim The other thing thats important is the power of a community. We are like a global family. I am always learning and growing in the OHDSI community. Our community strives to achieve common goals, and we tolerate mistake and discipline ourselves to get on the right track. In the process, we grow together and gain a global network. These feature of the community strongly drew me and made me stay in OHDSI. Kristin Kostka OHDSI is a rare place where everyone really roll up their sleeves. Its easy to talk, but doing take energy and dedication. Time and again Ive seen the community rally around supporting a need and turn it into something amazing. I think what make OHDSI the right environment is the mission. We all want to be part of something bigger than ourselves. We all want to see healthcare change for the better. Jenny Lane Being part of OHDSI ha changed my idea of how research should be designed, undertaken and reported. I feel that these notion are vital for science to move forward. I feel that this year ha definitely changed the way I feel about open science, and that transparency and collaboration are key to the future of epidemiological research during the time of fake news. Jing Li There is a saying in Chinese , which could be translated into Good wine need no bush. OHDSI ha great methodologies, tools, and community support, which are making more and more people adopt OMOP and join the community. As the six APAC chapter are all new to OHDSI community, it is very beneficial for the researcher to get together and share experiences. Asiyah Lin There is something unique about the OHDSI organization and how they support the community, which motivates the community to work a a whole. We know that with greater diversity and inclusiveness, there is greater creativity and innovation. Aniek Markus All the useful open-source tool available within the OHDSI community allowed me to build further on existing work and solve new challenge right from the beginning. I am not sure if I fully valued the worth of starting research in an environment with so much data during the beginning of my PhD. It ha certainly provided me with very valuable insight in real-world data collection process that are very helpful to also understand limitation in existing modelling methods. Jody-Ann McLeggon The sense of community and support inspires me the most.Together a a community we challenge and support each other. No matter the task, or how challenging it may initially seem, there someone in the community thats willing to help. Sometimes in the world of research we think and work in silo but in OHDSI we conquer those challenging clinical question together. Evan Minty As an internist, Ive become a better consumer of observational studies, and predictive model study in particular. That ha been very helpful in the COVID era. I wa better able to appraise the observational study that were being published, while OHDSIs own work produced effect estimate that I wa able to confidently bring to the bedside. As an example, I wa able to cite the work done by this group when justifying restraint regarding hydroxychloroquine in COVID-19 related respiratory disease to patient and their families. Maxim Moinat The OHDSI community ha always been very welcoming. This is such an ambitious group of skilled people, who always try to make time to guide newcomers; it is remarkable. Personally, I have grown to love the field of observational health research. It combine my passion for cleaning messy data and my background in medical science. OHDSI ha even inspired me to go back to academia and pursue a (part-time) PhD in medical informatics! Paul Nagy OHDSI is a multi-disciplinary community pushing the boundary of computational observational research so there is always something new to learn. The value of being transparent in our method and in our software resonate with me in trying to make a lasting impact. I get energized from going to OHDSI meeting because I always meet new people, learn new things, and am part of making a difference in improving healthcare. Melanie Philofsky OHDSIs mission, vision and value align with my view and desire to produce reliable, real- world evidence to inform decision on their healthcare. I didnt set out to become a leader in the OHDSI community. Pay it forward is one of my favorite motto and I enjoy sharing knowledge, mentoring, and teaching. OHDSI is such an open and welcoming community, it just came naturally to share what I have learned with others. Nicole Pratt I often sit in those teleconference (often late at night or in the wee hour of the morning here in Australia) and marvel at the discovery and new insight that are shared so openly. The light bulb moment that lead to fabulous discoveries! The work that ha been generated in LEGEND and EUMAEUS is important clinically, it can help to update clinical guideline and provides robust evidence for medicine regulator but for me these landmark study have also provided critical insight into which methodology are appropriate under which condition especially the value of empirical calibration! Anthony Sena OHDSIs core value include openness and reproducibility and the open-source nature of OHDSI is critical in supporting those values. Open-source software development ha trade-off but by publishing code used to produce results, we strive to make the work we do a a community a transparent a possible. Azza Shoaibi Completing that [effectiveness/safety of famotidine a a COVID treatment] study in a span of 3 weeks, I experienced what blow every scientist mind. Once the clinical question wa clear, OHDSI resources/tools/best practice enabled me to rapidly generate evidence that wa critically needed in a structured, standardized, transparent and reliable manner that no other way can possibly do. Kees van Bochove To really build on each others work, it not enough to peer review a paper now and then, nor is it enough to have Github repository for your code. You have to collaborate on all level on data, on methodology, on software, on the language and term you use exactly like OHDSI does! Mui Van Zandt What inspires me the most to stay active and a leader is the ability to collaborate to improve our overall health decision and better care. Its something I truly believe in a a great cause for ourselves and our future generations. There are so many out there who think just like me and it really show by the amount of openness and collaboration that is out there in the OHDSI community. Both personally and professionally, it great to see the number of people who care and want to help, and then actually do help and make a difference. Ross Williams A nice thing about OHDSI is the speed you can move from novice to intermediate and how people provide you with trust to perform analysis but also support you in doing so. Youre never left on an island, there is always a boat and someone willing to sail with you.Simply put, my PhD would have been impossible without the OHDSI toolstack and the community. Seng Chan You OHDSI ha six values: Innovation, Reproducibility, Community, Collaboration, Openness, and Beneficence. OHDSI pursues highly reliable evidence through innovative way and open-science spirit. When I started my journey in 2016, many guru in OHDSI welcomed and helped me a lot. OHDSI work hard to produce medical evidence for better care for humanity. It is truly impressive that OHDSI is trying to hold it values. 2024 powered by Top | | | Standardized Data: The OMOP Common Data Model The Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) Common Data Model (CDM) is an open community data standard, designed to standardize the structure and content of observational data and to enable efficient analysis that can produce reliable evidence. A central component of the OMOP CDM is the OHDSI standardized vocabularies. The OHDSI vocabulary allow organization and standardization of medical term to be used across the various clinical domain of the OMOP common data model and enable standardized analytics that leverage the knowledge base when constructing exposure and outcome phenotype and other feature within characterization, population-level effect estimation, and patient-level prediction studies. Data standardization is the critical process of bringing data into a common format that allows for collaborative research, large-scale analytics, and sharing of sophisticated tool and methodologies. Why is it so important?Healthcare data can vary greatly from one organization to the next. Data are collected for different purposes, such a provider reimbursement, clinical research, and direct patient care. These data may be stored in different format using different database system and information models. And despite the growing use of standard terminology in healthcare, the same concept (e.g., blood glucose) may be represented in a variety of way from one setting to the next.We at OHDSI are deeply involved in the evolution and adoption of a Common Data Model known a the OMOP Common Data Model. We provide resource to convert a wide variety of datasets into the CDM, a well a a plethora of tool to take advantage of your data once it is in CDM format.Most importantly, we have an active community that ha done many data conversion (often called ETLs) with member who are eager to help you with your CDM conversion and maintenance.What is the OMOP Common Data Model (CDM)?The OMOP Common Data Model allows for the systematic analysis of disparate observational databases. The concept behind this approach is to transform data contained within those database into a common format (data model) a well a a common representation (terminologies, vocabularies, coding schemes), and then perform systematic analysis using a library of standard analytic routine that have been written based on the common format.Why do we need aCDM?Observational database differ in both purpose and design. Electronic Medical Records (EMR) are aimed at supporting clinical practice at the point of care, while administrative claim data are built for the insurance reimbursement processes. Each ha been collected for a different purpose, resulting in different logical organization and physical formats, and the terminology used to describe the medicinal product and clinical condition vary from source to source.The CDM can accommodate both administrative claim and EHR, allowing user to generate evidence from a wide variety of sources. It would also support collaborative research across data source both within and outside the United States, in addition to being manageable for data owner and useful for data users.Why use the OMOP CDM?Once a database ha been converted to the OMOP CDM, evidence can be generated using standardized analytics tools. We at OHDSI are currently developing Open Source tool for data quality and characterization, medical product safety surveillance, comparative effectiveness, quality of care, and patient-level predictive modeling, but there are also other source of such tools, some of them commercial. 2024 powered by Top | | | Software Tools Software Tools OHDSI offer a wide range of open-source tool to support various data-analytics use case on observational patient-level data. What these tool have in common is that they can all interact with one or more database . Furthermore, these tool standardize the analytics for various use cases. Rather than having to start from scratch, an analysis can be implemented by filling in standard templates. This make performing analysis easier, and also improves reproducibility and transparency. For example, there appear to be a near-infinite number of way to compute an incidence rate, but these can be specified in the OHDSI tool with a few choices, and anyone making those same choice will compute incidence rate the same way. Several OHDSI tool are described below. ATLASis a free, publicly available, web-based tool developed by the OHDSI community that facilitates the design and execution of analysis on standardized, patient-level, observational data in the CDM format. ATLAS is deployed a a web application in combination with the . Performing real-time analysis requires access to the patient-level data in the CDM and is therefore typically installed behind an organization firewall. However, there is a public ATLAS, and although this ATLAS instance only ha access to a few small simulated datasets, it can still be used for many purpose including testing and training. It is even possible to fully define an effect estimation or prediction study using the public instance of ATLAS, and automatically generate the R code for executing the study. That code can then be run in any environment with an available CDM without needing to install ATLAS and the WebAPI. ATLAS LINKS Documentation: (includes YouTube tutorials) Demo: Installation Information: Source Code: 10-Minute Tutorial Video on Creating Cohort Definitions in ATLAS: HADES (previously the OHDSI METHODS LIBRARY)is a collection of open-source R package that offer function which can be used together to perform a complete observational study, starting from data in the CDM, and resulting in estimate and supporting statistics, figures, and tables. The package interact directly with observational data in the CDM, and can be used simply to provide cross-platform compatibility to completely custom analyses, or can provide advanced standardized analytics for population , , and . HADES support best practice for use of observational data and observational study design a learned from previous and ongoing research, such a transparency, reproducibility, a well a measuring the operating characteristic of method in a particular context and subsequent empirical calibration of estimate produced by the methods. HADES LINKS Documentation: Installation Information: Source Code: DATA QUALITY DASHBOARD applies a harmonized data quality assessment terminology to data that ha been standardized in the OMOP Common Data Model.Where ACHILLES run characterization analysis to provide an overall visual understanding of a CDM instance, the DQD go table by table and field by field to quantify the number of record in a CDM that do not conform to the given specifications. In all, over 1,500 check are performed, each one organized into the Kahn framework. For each check, the result is compared to a threshold whereby a FAIL is considered to be any percentage of violating row falling above that value. DATA QUALITY DASHBOARD LINKS Documentation: Demo: Installation Information: Source Code: ACHILLES is a software tool that provides for characterization and visualization of a database conforming to the CDM. It can also be a critical resource to evaluate the composition of CDM database in a network. ACHILLES is an R package, and produce report based on the summary data it generates in the Data Sources function of ATLAS. ACHILLES LINKS Documentation: Book of OHDSI and Demo: Installation Information: Source Code: 10-Minute Tutorial Video: ATHENA allows you to both search and load standardized vocabularies. It is a resource to be used, not a software tool to install. To download a zip file with all Standardized Vocabularies table select all the vocabulary you need for your OMOP CDM. Vocabularies with standard concept and very common usage are preselected. Add vocabulary that are used in your source data. Vocabularies that are proprietary have no select button. Click on the License required button to incorporate such a vocabulary into your list. The Vocabulary Team will contact you and request you demonstrate your license or help you connect to the right folk to obtain one. ATHENA LINKS Vocabularies: Source Code: 10-Minute Tutorial Video: WHITERABBIT andRABBIT-IN-A-HATare software tool to help prepare for ETLs of longitudinal healthcare database into the. WhiteRabbit scan your data and creates a report containing all the information necessary to begin designing the ETL.WhiteRabbits main function is to perform a scan of the source data, providing detailed information on the tables, fields, and value that appear in a field. The source data can be in comma-separated text files, or in a database (MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, Microsoft APS, Microsoft Access, Amazon RedShift). The scan will generate a report that can be used a a reference when designing the ETL, for instance by using it in conjunction with the Rabbit-In-a-Hat tool. WhiteRabbit differs from standard data profiling tool in that it attempt to prevent the display of personally identifiable information (PII) data value in the generated output data file. TheRabbit-in-a-Hat tool that come with the WhiteRabbitsoftware are specifically designed to support a team of expert in these areas. In a typical setting, the ETL design team sits together in a room, whileRabbit-in-a-Hat is projected on a screen. In a first round, the table-to-table mapping can be collaboratively decided, after which field-to-field mapping can be designed while defining the logic by which value will be transformed. Rabbit-In-a-Hat is designed to read and display a WhiteRabbitscan document. WhiteRabbitgenerates information about the source data whileRabbit-In-a-Hat us that information and through a graphical user interface to allow a user to connect source data to table and column within the CDM.Rabbit-In-a-Hat generates documentation for the ETL process, it doe not generate code to create an ETL. WHITERABBIT and RABBIT-IN-A-HAT LINKS Documentation:Book of OHDSI and Web Sites and Installation Information: and Source Code: USAGI is a tool to aid the manual process of creating a code mapping. It can make suggested mapping based on the textual similarity of code descriptions.Usagi allows the user to search for the appropriate target concept if the automated suggestion is not correct. Finally, the user can indicate which mapping are approved to be used in the ETL.Source code that need mapping are loaded into Usagi (if the code are not in English additional translation column are needed). A term similarity approach is used to connect source code to vocabulary concepts. However, these code connection need to be manually reviewed and Usagi provides an interface to facilitate that. Usagi will only propose concept that are marked a standard concept in the vocabulary. USAGI LINKS Documentation: Installation Information: Source Code: 10-Minute Tutorial Video: 2024 powered by Top | | | Open-Source Tutorials The open-source tool that empower OHDSIs global research initiative are not only available to the community, but they are also developed by the community. Leaders from around the world have developed tool that provide the foundation for OHDSI collaborator to engage in robust, reliable and reproducible observational health research.During various , developer join and provide 10-minute tutorial to educate the community about the tool potential impact, and how they can be used in research. These tutorial are available on , but are also posted below.The full-day Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence tutorial from the 2022 OHDSI Symposium . Phoebe 2.0 (Anna Ostropolets) PHOEBE is a recommender system that facilitates phenotype development standardization and comprehensive concept set creation. ARES (Frank DeFalco) ARES is A Research Exploration System that provides a unique combination of report and visualization leveraging existing OHDSI tool and integrating information that wa previously disparate. Broadsea (Lee Evans) Broadsea deploys the core OHDSI technology stack (Atlas & R Hades), using cross-platform Docker container technology. Strategus (Anthony Sena) Strategus is a new vision for OHDSI network study that aim to simplify the R infrastructure requirement for network sites. Einstein-ATLAS (Selvin Soby) Einstein-ATLAS, developed by the team at Montefiore, is a tool to convert OHDSI/ATLAS to an enterprise self-service tool for RWD, supporting full spectrum of use-cases and data need in an everchanging and expanding landscape. Automated Comparator Selection (Justin Bohn) This tool provides a comparator ranking algorithm based on covariate similarity that can enable large-scale, automated comparative-cohort analysis. Patient-Level Prediction (Jenna Reps) PatientLevelPrediction is an R package for building and validating patient-level predictive model using data in the OMOP Common Data Model format. PheKnowLator (Tiffany Callahan) PheKnowLator is the first fully customizable knowledge graph (KG) construction framework enabling user to build complex KGs that are Semantic Web compliant and amenable to automatic Web Ontology Language (OWL) reasoning, generate contemporary property graphs, and are importable by today popular graph toolkits. PheValuator (Joel Swerdel) PatientLevelPrediction produce a large cohort of subject each with a predicted probability for a specified health outcome of interest. Capr (Martin Lavallee) Capr is an R package to develop and manipulate OHDSI cohort definitions. 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI Forum Best Practices OHDSI Forum Best Practices Forum Rules No Spam, advertising or self-promotion in the forum These forum define spam a unsolicited advertisement for goods, service or other websites. All post must be relevant to the OHDSI community. Do not spam the forum with link to product or try to self-promote your website, business or forums. Any post that are clearly for marketing or self-promotion will be deleted and your account will be flagged Any material posted to the forum must be open-source Do not post any copyright-infringing material Do not post offensive posts, link or image Any material which constitutes defamation, harassment, or abuse is strictly prohibited. Material that is sexually or otherwise obscene, racist, or otherwise overly discriminatory is not permitted on these forums. This includes user pictures. Use common sense while posting. Do not cross post question Please refrain from posting the same question in several forums. There is normally one forum which is most suitable in which to post your question. To avoid cross posting, please use the search feature to see if a similar question ha already been asked in an existing thread. Post all question publicly Do not send private message to any user asking for help. If you need help, make a new thread in the appropriate forum then the whole community can help and benefit. Remain respectful of other member at all time All post should be professional and courteous. You have every right to disagree with your fellow community member and explain your perspective. However, you are not free to attack, degrade, insult, or otherwise belittle them or the quality of this community. Only create and maintain one forum account General Posting Guidelines Please use SEARCH first! There is a pretty good chance that unless you have some really odd or unique problem that it ha been addressed on our forum before, please use the forum search feature first to see if there are already some good thread on the subject. Its easy to search just click the Search button at the top right of the page. Be DESCRIPTIVE when writing the title and content of your post PLEASE post a descriptive title! Give a short summary of your problem IN THE SUBJECT. Heres a great list of topic subject YOU SHOULD NOT POST: Help me! I have a question! Urgent! Heres a good example of a way to title your post: Call for participation in OHDSI network study: Bipolar Misclassification Validation Keep up-to-date on forum activity by adding topic of interest to your personal watch list. You can recieve forum post of interest directly to your email by adding topic of interest to your watch list. Follow the step below to update your watch list: Go to your forum account From there, select the preference button from the menu located along the top of your account From there, select the category option from the menu on the left side of the screen Add the thread youd like to follow to the watched box 2024 powered by Top | | | Education Education There are plenty of way to learn more about our community. From our data standard to our method and clinical research to our open-source development and collaborative activities, OHDSI continues to evolve around our mission of improving health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Below are a few example of way you can learn more about the community. Book Of OHDSI Published in 2019, the Book of OHDSI () aim to be a central knowledge repository for OHDSI, and it focus on describing the OHDSI community, OHDSI data standards, and OHDSI tools. It is intended for both OHDSI newcomer and veteran alike, and aim to be practical, providing the necessary theory and subsequent instruction on how to design and implement research yourself. You will learn about the OMOP common data model and standard vocabularies, and how they can be used to standardize an observational healthcare database. You will learn about three analytic use case for these data: characterization, population-level estimation, and patient-level prediction. You will read about OHDSIs open-source tool and how they can be applied to your data and how you can design and implement your own analysis following OHDSIs best practices. Chapters on data quality, clinical validity, software validity, and method validity will explain how to establish the quality of the generated evidence. Lastly, you will learn how to use the OHDSI tool to execute these study in a distributed research network. The Book of OHDSI is available for free online in English, Korean and Chinese, and can also be purchased through Amazon (all link are available in our menu above). The EHDEN Academy The EHDEN Academy () serf a a free, publicly available online educational resource for anyone working in the domain of real-world data and real-world evidence. Originating in the European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) IMI2 project, it goal is to build upon the foundation of that project and it collaboration with the OHDSI community. It is currently used across ~70 country and ha ~2900 enrollees. The EHDEN Academy is a resource on tools, method and skill for all those who generate and utilize data, work technically with it (e.g. ETL and mapping), and are involved in methodological development and the use of standardized analytical tools. YouTube Tutorials + Presentations The OHDSI YouTube channel includes past tutorial and presentation made in community call and global symposium and other community events, including the 2022 DevCon event. The page currently includes more than 400 hour of community-developed content, including each session of the 2022 Symposium tutorial, . There are specific playlist devoted to tutorial and workshops, , , etc. OHDSI Forums As a transparent, open community, we believe that posting our questions, answer and comment in the public domain is the best way for u all to learn together. provides an open venue for all member of the community to seek and provide help from fellow collaborator around the world. There are more than 5,500 different thread across a variety of category within our forums. Have a question? This is a great starting point! Our Journey: Where The OHDSI Community Has Been, And Where We Are Going The Our Journey publication is an annual report that provides a high-level overview of all aspect of the OHDSI community, including it start and global mission, the OMOP Common Data Model and global data network, it collaborative activity and publications, and plenty more. The 2022 version includes a map of it 453 data partners, new detail on the HADES open-source tools, information on OHDSI vocabulary and recent methodological research, and plenty more. The book is distributed at the global symposium, but . 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI2022 Tutorial: An Introductory Journey From Data To Evidence During the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, community leader taught a full-day tutorial meant to introduce participant to the varying step along the journey from data to evidence using the OMOP Common Data Model, OHDSI tool and scientific best practices.In each 50-minute segment, the class learned the conceptual framing of the problem and approach to the solution. The class had the opportunity to gain hands-on exposure to design and implementation of analysis and interpretation of results. The course wa motivated by a real use case: using observational data to generate evidence about the relationship between an exposure and outcome, and it highlighted how the suite of OHDSI tool and practice can enable such learning.This class wa designed for newcomer to the OHDSI community who were looking for a high-level summary across a wide range of topic covered within the OHDSI community. It wa also designed for those in the OHDSI community who may be focused in one particular area of the journey, but who want exposure to the other areas, so they can better understand how their work contributes to be big picture.Videos and slide from the tutorial are all available on this webpage. Tutorial Materials 1. Overview of the OHDSI Journey: Where are we going? Faculty: Patrick Ryan 2. OMOP Common Data Model & Vocabulary/ETL a source database into OMOP CDM Faculty: Clair Blacketer, Melanie Philofsky 3. Creating cohort definition Faculty: Asieh Golozar 4. Phenotype evaluation Faculty: Gowtham Rao 5. Characterization Faculty: Kristin Kostka 6. Estimation Faculty: Martijn Schuemie 7. Prediction Faculty: Jenna Reps 8. Where do we go from here? Faculty: George Hripcsak Slides 2024 powered by Top | | | ATLAS Tutorials ATLAS Tutorials (see tutorial below) DATA SOURCES SEARCH CONCEPT SETS COHORT DEFINITIONS CHARACTERIZATION COHORT PATHWAYS INCIDENCE RATES PROFILES ESTIMATION PREDICTION 2024 powered by Top | | | Past Presentations Past Presentations November 2023 OHDSI RWE Revolution: Igniting Data Modernization with Harmonized Standards for Cutting-Edge Health Research (EMA Data Analytics and Methods Task Force) Atif Adam, Asieh Golozar, Ben Martin, Paul Nagy, Gowtham Rao, Christian Reich, Mui Van Zandt, Ross Williams Analysis and Interpretation of Real-World Data: A 5-Year Outlook November 2021 Learnings Initiative for Optimal Use of Big Data for Regulatory Purpose (EMA Data Analytics and Methods Task Force) Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University Analysis and Interpretation of Real-World Data: A 5-Year Outlook May 2021 Building Data Capacity for Patient Centered Outcomes Research: Data Standards, Methods, and Policy Workshop Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University Building Data Capacity for Patient Centered Outcomes Research: Perspectives from the OHDSI community presentation to the National Academies Nigam Shah Stanford University Building Data Capacity for Patient Centered Outcomes Research presentation to the National Academies April 2021 Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics, Interoperability, and Research George Hripcsak Columbia University presentation to the ONC Interoperability Standards Priorities Task Force September 2020 Korean HIRA Big Data Forum Concerted Efforts Based on Big Data in Response to the Global Pandemic Dani Prieto-Alhambra University of Oxford Using Healthcare Big Data in Pandemic Response though Population-Level Effect Estimation Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University Using Healthcare Big Data in Pandemic Response by Characterizing Disease Natural History and Predicting Patient Outcomes Kristin Kostka IQVIA International Distributed Research Network (DRN) to Combat COVID-19 August 2020 2020 Joint Statistical Meetings Session:The OHDSI Collaboration: Generating Reliable Evidence from Large-Scale Healthcare Data Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University The OHDSI Collaboration: Mission, Accomplishments, and the Road Ahead David Madigan Northeastern University OHDSI Methods for Causal Effect Estimation Marc Suchard UCLA Large-Scale Evidence Generation in a Network of Databases (LEGEND) Methodology and the Hypertension Study July 2020 Reagan-Udall Foundation Natural History and Exploring Long-Term Effects Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University Analyzing COVID-19 Twitter Chatter Juan Banda Georgia State University Daniel Prieto-Alhambra Oxford University May 2020 Reagan-Udall Foundation OHDSI Community Efforts on COVID-19 Disease Natural History Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University Dani Prieto-Alhambra, MD PhD Oxford University Talita Duarte Salles, PhD IDIAPJGol Ross Williams Erasmus MC ISPE Webinar Open Science for Observational Research: Lessons from the OHDSI Collaborative Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University April 2020 Reagan-Udall Foundation OHDSI COVID-19 Study-a-Thon and Evaluation of Safety of Hydroxychloroquine in RA Patients Patrick Ryan Janssen, Columbia University March 2020 COVID-19 Study-A-Thon Global Closing Call Multiple OHDSI Collaborators August 2019 MedInfo 2019 Drawingreproducibleconclusionsfrom observationalclinicaldatawithOHDSI George Hripcsak Columbia University August 2017 MedInfo 2017 Research infrastructure of the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) consortium: Institutional and researcher perspective Vojtech Huser NIH Rae Woong Park Ajou University Christian Reich QuintilesIMS MedInfo 2017 OHDSI in Korea Rae Woong Park Ajou University Christian Reich QuintilesIMS MedInfo 2017 OHDSI in Europe Christian Reich QuintilesIMS OHDSI China-WG F2F OHDSI ATLAS (In Chinese) Chunhua Weng Columbia University September 2016 2016 OHDSI Symposium The OHDSI Community Washington DC March 2016 Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI): A Rapidly Growing International Network for Open Science and Data Analytics in Healthcare Patrick Ryan, Janssen Research & Development Vojtech Huser, National Institutes of Health Nigam Shah, Stanford University George Hripcsak, Columbia University Jon Duke, Regenstrief Institute San Francisco October 2015 2015 OHDSI Symposium The OHDSI Community Washington DC August 2015 Open-Source Big Data Analytics in Healthcare Patrick Ryan, Janssen Research & Development George Hripcsak, Columbia University Medical Center Jon Duke, Regenstrief Institute MedInfo 2015 So Paulo, Brazil June 2015 An Open Science Approach to Medical Evidence Generation: Introducing Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics Jon Duke, Regenstrief Institute AcademyHealth Minneapolis MN, USA Applying Hills criterion a a framework for causal inference in observational data Patrick Ryan, Janssen Research & Development Drug Safety Research Unit London, United Kingdom May 2015 How to extract transform and load observational data? Martijn Schuemie, Janssen Research & Development Beijing, China March 2015 ConceptQL An open source, high-level language that allows researcher to unambiguously define their research algorithm AMIA Spring Symposum 2015San Francisco, CA An Open Collaborative Approach for Rapid Evidence Generation AMIA Spring Symposum 2015San Francisco, CA Piloting a Comprehensive Knowledge Base for Pharmacovigilance Using Standardized Vocabularies Rich Boyce, University of Pittsburgh AMIA Spring Symposum 2015San Francisco, CA Creating Clinical Phenotypes Using Structured and Unstructured Data Jon Duke, Regenstrief Institute AMIA Spring Symposum 2015San Francisco, CA June 2014 Opportunity for real-world evidence from large-scale analysis of observational health data Patrick Ryan, Janssen R&D AAAS,Evidence for New Medical Products: Implications for Patients and Health Policy Washington, DC (begins at 40:30) Establishing an Open Source Informatics Framework to enable Observational Health Data Sciences Frank DeFalco, Janssen R&D; Patrick Ryan, Janssen R&D; and Christopher Knoll, Janssen R&D 4th Annual EDM Forum Stakeholder Symposium San Diego, CA May 2014 Dynamic Product Labeling Jon Duke, Regenstrief Institute Uppsala Monitoring CentreResearch Conference 2014Uppsala, Sweden (starts at slide 42) The complementary role of population-level estimation and patient-level prediction in pharmacovigilance Patrick Ryan, Janssen R&D Uppsala Monitoring CentreResearch Conference 2014Uppsala, Sweden OHDSI Overview and OMOP Common Data Model Development Patrick Ryan, Janssen R&D and Christian Reich, AstraZeneca IMEDS Community Meeting Webinar April 2014 Learning From Observational Healthcare Data: Lessons from the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership Patrick Ryan, Janssen R&D 3rd Workshop on Data Mining for Medicine and Healthcare, SIAM International Conference on Data Mining Philadelphia, PA March 2014 Learning From Observational Healthcare Data: Lessons from the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership Patrick Ryan, Janssen R&D ASCPT Annual Meeting;Next-Generation Clinical Pharmacology: Integrating Systems Pharmacology, Data-Driven Therapeutics, and Personalized Medicine Atlanta, GA To see slide from our weekly collaborator meetings, please click below: 2024 powered by Top | | | Join The Journey As a community, we are collaborating towards improving health outcome for patient around the world.To achieve this goal, we are developing and generating high-quality evidence to inform medical decision making.Whether youre a software developer, physician or clinical researcher, there is a place for everyone in the OHDSI community.Want to Join The Journey? Here are a few way you can get started! Step One: Join The OHDSI Forums Connectwith other OHDSI collaborator and start discussing how you can help u inform medical decision-making, or simply follow discussion that are interesting to you and learn about the work happening within our global community. Step Two: Join The OHDSI MS Teams Environment Collaborate with u globally on our Microsoft Teams environment. We have a main OHDSI team, a well a many others focused on specific workgroups, studies, regional chapters, etc. You can get access to our Teams environment , and then use this form to . What is OHDSI All About? Hear from our community! Step Three: Join Our Community Calls and/or Workgroup CallsInteract with member of our community weekly during our OHDSI Community Call, held Tuesdays at 11 am ET within the Teams environment. Following weekly updates, we have a variety of call formats, including breakout discussions, research presentations, workgroup updates, and quarterly call dedicated to welcoming newcomers. These call are recorded, and you can access them (as well a the meeting link) . Our workgroups meet to discus a broad variety of specific topic of interest in the community. Groups can meet weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, etc. We keep an updated schedule of meeting at , and we invite you to join these call and collaborate with our community!Step Four: Continue To Learn About OHDSILearnabout OHDSI tool and research process in a variety of ways. (which is also translated into both and ) is a community-developed resource with information for every step of your journey. We collaborate with our friend at to develop , a set of free, on-demand training and development courses. These are open to anybody, but we always encourage new OHDSI collaborator to use this resource to learn about best practice towards our mission of improving health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Our keep you informed of recent publications, upcoming study and more, while also profiling collaborator and providing any other update about our global efforts. We have held many tutorial throughout the years, with the last in-person one coming in Bethesda, Md. While COVID-19 may have kept u from coming together in person, we had more than 2,000 registrant for, which had impressive presentation in many area (including a plenary session on ).Join The JourneyYour journey with OHDSI ha already started. Your interest in this global collaboration is the first step in making a real difference in global health. There is no limit to the difference you can make in our community. We invite you to search our website, post to the forum, join u in Teams, check out our , or reach out to .Thank you for Joining The Journey with OHDSI! 2024 powered by Top | | | Upcoming Workgroup Calls Upcoming Workgroup Calls Last updated May 5, 2024Vaccine Vocabulary WG: Monday, May 6 at 9am ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Monday at 9am ETHealthcare Systems Interest Group: Monday, May 6 at 10am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Monday at 10am ET POSTPONED FROM APRIL 22Atlas WG: Tuesday, May 7 at 9am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the first Tuesday of each month at 9am ETRegistry WG: Tuesday, May 7 at 10am ET Additional meeting schedule to comeCommon Data Model WG: Tuesday, May 7 at 10am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the first and third Tuesdays of each month at 10am and 1pm ET, respectively.Patient-Level Prediction (PLP) WG: Wednesday, May 8 at 9am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Wednesday of the month at 9am ET.Health Equity Work Group: Wednesday, May 8 at 12pm ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Wednesday of the month at 12pm ETNatural Language Processing WG: Wednesday, May 8 at 2pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Wednesday of each month at 2pm ETJOINT Vulcan/OHDSI Meeting: Wednesday, May 8 at 3pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every Wednesday at 3pm ET and take place on ZOOM; new meeting link to come.Data Network Quality WG: Thursday, May 9 at 9:30am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd and 4th Thursdays at 9:30am ETEvidence Network WG: Thursday, May 9 at 10:30am Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Thursday of each month at 10:30am ETStrategus HADES Subgroup: Thursday, May 9 at 12pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Thursday of each month at 12pm ETDentistry WG: Thursday, May 9 at 7pm ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every Thursday at 7pm ET.Phenotype Development and Evaluation WG: Friday, May 10 at 9am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second and fourth Fridays of each month at 9am ETGIS-Geographic Information System WG Meeting: Friday, May 10 at 10am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every Friday at 10am ETClinical Trials WG: Friday, May 10 at 11:30am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Friday at 11:30am ETChina Chapter WG: Friday, May 10 at 10pm ET () (This meeting doe NOT take place in Teams)Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd Fridays of the month at 10pm or 11pm (summer) ETEarly-Stage Researchers WG: (Europe/East Coast/West Coast): Monday, May 13 at 11am Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Monday of each month at 11am ETAfrica Chapter Meeting: Monday, May 13 at 10am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Monday at 10am ETOMOP CDM Oncology WG Genomic Subgroup Meeting: Tuesday, May 14 at 9am ET () Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of each month at 9am ETCommon Data Model WG- VOCABULARY Subgroup: Tuesday, May 14 at 12pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Tuesday at 12pm ETGenerative AI and Analytics WG: Tuesday, May 14 at 12pm ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the second Tuesday of the month at 12pm ETOMOP CDM Oncology WG- Outreach/Research Subgroup: Tuesday, May 14 at 3pm (ET) Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd Tuesdays of each month at 3pm and the 4th Wednesday of each month at 9amEyecare & Vision Research WG: Tuesday, May 14 at 6pm Meetings are traditionally scheduled to be held a alternating 2nd Tuesday at 6 PM EST and 2nd Monday at 4 PM ETFUTURE MEETINGSMedical Imaging WG: Wednesday, May 15 at 7am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Wednesday alternating between 7am and 7pmPerinatal & Reproductive Health WG: Wednesday, May 15 at 1pm ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the third Wednesday of each month at 1pm ET OHDSI India Community Call: Thursday, May 16 at 8am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the third Thursday of each month at 8amMedical Devices WG: Thursday, May 16 at 9am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every 3 week on a Thursday alternating between 9am and 12pm ETOMOP CDM Oncology- Vocabulary /Development Subgroup: Thursday, May 16 at 9am ET (Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 1st Thursday of the month at 1pm EST and the 3rd Thursday of the month at 9am ESTThemis WG Meeting: Thursday, May 16 at 9:30am ET (Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 1st and 3rd Thursdays of the month at 9:30am ETRehabilitation WG: Thursday, May 16 at 10am ET (4pm CET) ()Additional schedule to come.HADES WG: Thursday, May 16 at 12pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the third Thursday of each month at 12pm ETOpen-Source Community WG: Friday, May 17 at 10:30am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 3rd Friday of the month at 10:30am ETData Bricks User Group Meeting: Monday, May 20 at 11am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 3rd Monday of the month at 11am ETElectronic Animal Health Records WG: Monday, May 20 at 1pm CST (2pm EST) Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 3rd Monday of the month at 1pm CSTCommon Data Model WG: Tuesday, May 21 at 1pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the first and third Tuesdays of each month at 10am and 1pm ET, respectively.OMOP CDM Oncology WG- Outreach/Research Subgroup: Wednesday, May 22 at 9am (ET) Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd Tuesdays of each month at 3pm and the 4th Wednesday of each month at 9am ETLatin America WG: Wednesday, May 22 at 11am Bogota/Lima/Quito time (12pm EST) ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the fourth Wednesday of each month at 11am Bogota/Lima/Quito time.Data Network Quality WG: Thursday, May 23 at 9:30am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd and 4th Thursdays at 9:30am ETPhenotype Development and Evaluation WG Meeting: Friday, May 24 at 9am ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd and 4th Fridays of the month at 9am ETEyecare & Vision Research WG: Monday, May 27 at 4pm ET This meeting is traditionally scheduled for the 4th Monday of each month at 4pm ETOMOP CDM Oncology WG Genomic Subgroup Meeting: Tuesday, May 28 at 9am ET () Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of each month at 9am ETSurgery and Perioperative Medicine WG: Wednesday, May 29 at 10am ET )Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the last Wednesday of each month at 10am ETMedical Imaging WG: Wednesday, May 29 at 7pm ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every other Wednesday alternating between 7am and 7pmPsychiatry WG: Wednesday, June 5 at 8am ET Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the first Wednesday of each month at 8am ETThemis WG Meeting: Thursday, June 6 at 9:30am ET (Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 1st and 3rd Thursdays of the month at 9:30am ETIndustry WG Meeting: Thursday, June 6 at 4pm UK time (11am ET) (Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 1st Thursday at 4pm UK timeMedical Devices WG: Thursday, June 6 at 12pm ET ()Meetings are traditionally scheduled for every 3 week on a Thursday alternating between 9am and 12pm ETMethods Research (Western Hemisphere): Thursday, June 6 at 12pm ET (Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 1st Thursday of the month at 12pm ETOMOP CDM Oncology- Vocabulary /Development Subgroup: Thursday, June 6 at 1pm ET (Meetings are traditionally scheduled for the 1st Thursday of the month at 1pm EST and the 3rd Thursday of the month at 9am ETEyecare & Vision Research WG: Monday, June 10 at 4pm Meetings are traditionally scheduled to be held a alternating 2nd Tuesday at 6 PM EST and 2nd Monday at 4 PM ETWORKGROUP MEETINGS ON HIATUSEducation WG: On hiatus 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI Community Calls Everybody is invited to the weekly OHDSI community call, which take place each Tuesday at 11 am ET. These call are meant to inform and engage our community through a variety of call formats, including community presentations, workgroup updates, breakout sessions, publication announcements, newcomer-focused sessions, and more. The upcoming schedule is available to the right.Videos, slide and weekly update from this year call are available below. Presentations from the , andcommunity call are also available. Weekly Recordings & Updates The May 7 community call featured a review of DevCon 2024, which served a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software.This session included several speaker and topic from the event, including: Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins University (Open-Source Overview) Vishnu Chandrabalan, Lancaster University (OHDSI/OMOP The hard way is the easy way) Roger Carlson, Spectrum Health (Moving OMOP to the Cloud with DBT and Snowflake) Lee Evans, LTS Computing LLC (Broadsea Update) Frank DeFalco, Janssen Research & Development (Technical Advisory Board (TAB) Update) Katy Sadowski, Boehringer Ingelheim (Kheiron Cohort Update)This presentation is posted below. All recording from the full DevCon 2024 session are available .Community Updates Congratulations to the team of William G. Adams, Sarah Gasman, Ariel L. Beccia and Liza Fuentes on the publication of in the Journal of Clinical and Translational Science. Congratulations to the team of Nhung TH Trinh, Annika M Jdicke, Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Saeed Hayati, Angela Lupattelli, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Hedvig ME Nordeng on the publication of in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine. The latest edition of the OHDSI newsletter , and it includes reflection on both the April Olympians and DevCon events, community updates, a collaborator showcase, publication and presentation from April, and plenty more. If you dont receive the newsletter in your email, . Montse Camprubi work at Synapse Research Management Partners. Currently the EHDEN community manager, she is leading the central coordination effort between EHDEN Data Partners and certified SMES and EHDEN experts. , Montse discus her background and career journey, recent highlight and future plan in EHDEN, the upcoming OHDSI Europe Symposium, and plenty more. Applications are being accepted to join the 2024-25 Kheiron Cohort. This program is designed to onboard new contributor into OHDSI to empower them to become active contributor and maintainers. The goal are to provide career development, create a global perspective of the ecosystem, build cross-connections between project and develop future leader for OHDSI. ! Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence. , including application details, are now available, is May 22, 2024. Marissa Fiorella shared a forum post highlighting the upcoming Symposium on Risks and Opportunities of Artificial Intelligence in Pharmaceutical Medicine (AIPM), which will be held June 10-11 at Northeastern University, and will also have a Zoom option. Some OHDSI collaborator who are either speaking or helping organize the event are David Madigan, Asieh Golozar, David Sontag, Louisa Smith, and Marc Suchard. More detail and registration information . Linying Zhang is organizing a workshop on at the 22ndInternational (AIME), happening at Salt Lake City, Utah, on July 9-12, 2024. The workshop focus on advancing the understanding and exploring the transformative role of artificial intelligence (AI) in analyzing real-world data (RWD) for real-world evidence (RWE) generation. George Hripcsakwill be delivering the opening keynote speech.The workshop will also feature scientific presentation from author with accepted paper or abstracts, and potentially a panel or debate. The intended length is 4 hours. We are calling for submission of full papers, short papers, and poster abstracts! Thesubmission deadlineisMay 31, 2024. More information is available on the or homepages. Registration is open for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details.2024 OHDSI Global Symposium is now open for the , which will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. The three-day event will feature tutorial on Day 1, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Day 2, and workgroup activity on Day 3. Day 1 will open with a single tutorial in the morning: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI. There will be four advanced tutorial during the afternoon: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI; Developing and Evaluating Your Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) Process to the OMOP Common Data Model; So, You Think You Want To Run an OHDSI Network Study?; and Using the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies for Research. You can select your tutorial during the registration process. Collaborator Showcase submission are now being accepted, and . Submissions are due by Friday, June 21, at 8 pm ET. Notifications of acceptance will be sent out by Tuesday, Aug. 20.OHDSI Social Showcase Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Denys Kaduk)Tuesday (Jared Houghtaling)Wednesday (Jill Hardin)Thursday (Boudewijn Aasman)Friday (Qiong Wu)Job Openings Ross Williams shared that the Erasmus MC Department of Medical Informatics is looking for a PhD student to work on cutting-edge health AI and data science topics. This person will be responsible for the research on using federated data network to improve best practice around the development and validation of prediction models. You will lead and contribute to project conducting methodological research within the field of machine learning in healthcare. More information and the application link . The application deadline is May 13. Aki Nishimura announced that Johns Hopkins University is seeking postdoctoral fellows. The fellow would work on methodological research in pharmaco-epidemiology to address medication and device utilization, effectiveness, and safety relevant to health, lung, and blood diseases. More information and application detail . If you are interested in having Aki Nishimura a a co-advisor, please include him on your application email at . Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link .Slides| Presentations: / | Video Presentation The conclusion of the April Olympians collaborative activity includes thanks to the many community member who took part, and an interactive game that highlight how to use the newly developed Themis convention homepage. This session is led by Clair Blacketer, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research & Development.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Martin Baumgartner, Karl Kreiner, Aaron Lauschensky, Bernhard Jammerbund, Klaus Donsa, Dieter Hayn, Fabian Wiesmller, Lea Demelius, Robert Modre-Osprian, Sabrina Neururer, Gerald Slamanig, Sarah Prantl, Luca Brunelli, Bernhard Pfeifer, Gerhard Plzl, and Gnter Schreier on the publication of in Frontiers in Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Chungsoo Kim, Dong Han Yu, Hyeran Baek, Jaehyeong Cho, Seng Chan You, and Rae Woong Park on the publication of in the International Journal of Epidemiology. Congratulations to the team of Markus Falgenhauer, Aaron Lauschensky, Karl Kreiner, Stefan Beyer, Kristina Reiter, Andreas Ziegl, Robert Modre-Osprian, Bernhard Pfeifer, Sabrina Neururer, Susanne Krestan, Hanna Wagner, Andreas Huber, Sandra Plaikner, Sarah Kuppelwieser, Martin Widschwendter, and Gnter Schreier on the publication of in Volume 313 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Evgeniy Krastev, Emanuil Markov, Simeon Abanos, Ralitsa Krasteva, and Dimitar Tcharaktchiev on the publication of in Volume 313 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. served a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software. The full agenda from the event is posted below, and recording are available on the event homepage. Applications are being accepted to join the 2024-25 Kheiron Cohort. This program is designed to onboard new contributor into OHDSI to empower them to become active contributor and maintainers. The goal are to provide career development, create a global perspective of the ecosystem, build cross-connections between project and develop future leader for OHDSI. ! Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence. , including application details, are now available, is May 15, 2024. Linying Zhang is organizing a workshop on at the 22ndInternational (AIME), happening at Salt Lake City, Utah, on July 9-12, 2024. The workshop focus on advancing the understanding and exploring the transformative role of artificial intelligence (AI) in analyzing real-world data (RWD) for real-world evidence (RWE) generation. George Hripcsakwill be delivering the opening keynote speech.The workshop will also feature scientific presentation from author with accepted paper or abstracts, and potentially a panel or debate. The intended length is 4 hours. We are calling for submission of full papers, short papers, and poster abstracts! Thesubmission deadlineisMay 31, 2024. More information is available on the or homepages. Registration is open for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details.2024 OHDSI Global Symposium is now open for the , which will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. The three-day event will feature tutorial on Day 1, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Day 2, and workgroup activity on Day 3. Day 1 will open with a single tutorial in the morning: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI. There will be four advanced tutorial during the afternoon: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI; Developing and Evaluating Your Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) Process to the OMOP Common Data Model; So, You Think You Want To Run an OHDSI Network Study?; and Using the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies for Research. You can select your tutorial during the registration process. Collaborator Showcase submission are now being accepted, and . Submissions are due by Friday, June 21, at 8 pm ET. Notifications of acceptance will be sent out by Tuesday, Aug. 20.OHDSI Social Showcase Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Dian Tri Wiyanti)Tuesday (Elise Ruan)Wednesday (Azza Shoaibi)Thursday (Victor Castro)Friday (Jeffrey Klann)Job Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link . Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to .Slides| Video Presentation The April 23 community call focused on the CDM and Themis Process. This call provided historical and current information about both the CDM and Themis workgroups, including their mission and processes. Presentations were made by our April Olympians co-leads: Clair Blacketer, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research & Development Melanie Philofsky, Senior Business Analyst and Project Manager, Odysseus Data Services, Inc.This session also included our fourth update on the April Olympians community activity. You can watch the full presentation below.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Roger Ward, Christine Mary Hallinan, David Ormiston-Smith, Christine Chidgey, and Dougie Boyle on the publication of in PLOS One. Congratulations to the team of Christian Gulden, Philipp Macho, Ines Reinecke, Cosima Strantz, Hans-Ulrich Prokosch, and Romina Blasini on the publication of in Computers in Biology and Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Giorgio Gandaglia, Francesco Pellegrino, Asieh Golozar, Bertrand De Meulder, Thomas Abbott, Ariel Achtman, Muhammad Imran Omar, Thamir Alshammari, Carlos Areia, Alex Asiimwe, Katharina Beyer, Anders Bjartell, Riccardo Campi, Philip Cornford, Thomas Falconer, Qi Feng, Mengchun Gong, Ronald Herrera, Nigel Hughes, Tim Hulsen, Adam Kinnaird, Lana Y.H. Lai, Gianluca Maresca, Nicolas Mottet, Marek Oja, Peter Prinsen, Christian Reich, Sebastiaan Remmers, Monique J. Roobol, Vasileios Sakalis, Sarah Seager, Emma J. Smith, Robert Snijder, Carl Steinbeisser, Nicolas H. Thurin, Ayman Hijazy, Kees van Bochove, Roderick C.N. Van den Bergh, Mieke Van Hemelrijck, Peter-Paul Willemse, Andrew E. Williams, Nazanin Zounemat Kermani, Susan Evans-Axelsson, Alberto Briganti, James NDow, on behalf of the PIONEER Consortium on the publication of in European Urology. Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence. , including application details, are now available, is May 15, 2024. The third annual OHDSI DevCon will be held virtually on Friday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pm ET. Join leader from our Open-Source Community for a day to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer within the OHDSI Community. More detail on the agenda will be posted when available. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details.2024 OHDSI Global Symposium is now open for the , which will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. The three-day event will feature tutorial on Day 1, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Day 2, and workgroup activity on Day 3. Day 1 will open with a single tutorial in the morning: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI. There will be four advanced tutorial during the afternoon: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI; Developing and Evaluating Your Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) Process to the OMOP Common Data Model; So, You Think You Want To Run an OHDSI Network Study?; and Using the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies for Research. You can select your tutorial during the registration process. Collaborator Showcase submission are now being accepted, and . Submissions are due by Friday, June 21, at 8 pm ET. Notifications of acceptance will be sent out by Tuesday, Aug. 20.OHDSI Social Showcase Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Frank DeFalco)Tuesday (Maya Younoszai)Wednesday (Nag Mani)Thursday (Chen Yanover)Friday (Ajit Londhe)Job Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link . Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to .Slides | | Video Presentation The April 16 community call focused on Tools to Evaluate ETL. We welcomed two community leader to lead our main session: Frank DeFalco, Senior Director, Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research & Development Katy Sadowski, Senior Associate Director, Boehringer IngelheimThis session also included our third update on the April Olympians community activity. Both presentation are available below.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Nhung TH Trinh, Annika M Jdicke, Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Saeed Hayati, Angela Lupattelli, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Hedvig ME Nordeng on the publication of in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Guy Tsafnat, Rachel Dunscombe, Davera Gabriel, Grahame Grieve, and Christian Reich on the publication of in the Journal of Medical Internet Research. Congratulations to the team of Ailbhe Lawlor, Carol Lin, Juan Gmez Rivas, Laura Ibez, Pablo Abad Lpez, Peter-Paul Willemse, Muhammad Imran Omar, Sebastiaan Remmers, Philip Cornford, Pawel Rajwa, Rossella Nicoletti, Giorgio Gandaglia, Jeremy Yuen-Chun Teoh, Jess Moreno Sierra, Asieh Golozar, Anders Bjartell, Susan Evans-Axelsson, James NDow, Jihong Zong, Maria J. Ribal, Monique J. Roobol, Mieke Van Hemelrijck, Katharina Beyer, on behalf of the PIONEER Consortium on the publication of in European Urology Open Science. Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence. , including application details, are now available, is May 15, 2024. The return Wednesday, April 17 (11 am 12 pm ET) a 2021 Titan Award honoreeYong Chenpresents his research onReal-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents: causal inference under misclassification in treatment status. This series is open to anybody:. The third annual OHDSI DevCon will be held virtually on Friday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pm ET. Join leader from our Open-Source Community for a day to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer within the OHDSI Community. More detail on the agenda will be posted when available. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Atif Adam announced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Stephanie Hong)Tuesday (Emir Amaro Syailendra)Wednesday (Lina Sulieman)Thursday (Gowtham Rao)Friday (Guy Livne)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to .Slides| | Video PresentationTools to Evaluate ETLApril Olympians Update The April 9 community call focused on Vocabulary Techniques for ETL. This call also included our second April Olympians update (Clair Blacketer and Melanie Philofsky), a well a the first OKR presentation from the newly formed Rehabilitation Workgroup (Ruud Selles and Esther Janssen).We welcomed four community leader to present on Vocabulary Techiques for ETL: Dmitry Dymshyts, Associate Director, Janssen Research & Development Tanya Skugarevskaya, Vocabulary Team, Odysseus Data Services, Inc. Anna Ostropolets, Associate Director, Janssen Research & Development Alexander Davydov, Director, Lead of Medical Ontologies, Odysseus Data Services, Inc.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Pawel Rajwa, Angelika Borkowetz, Thomas Abbott, Andrea Alberti, Anders Bjartell, James T. Brash, Riccardo Campi, Andrew Chilelli, Mitchell Conover, Niculae Constantinovici, Eleanor Davies, Bertrand De Meulder, Sherrine Eid, Mauro Gacci, Asieh Golozar, Haroon Hafeez, Samiul Haque, Ayman Hijazy, Tim Hulsen, Andreas Josefsson, Sara Khalid, Raivo Kolde, Daniel Kotik, Samu Kurki, Mark Lambrecht, Chi-Ho Leung, Julia Moreno, Rossella Nicoletti, Daan Nieboer, Marek Oja, Soundarya Palanisamy, Peter Prinsen, Christian Reich, Giulio Raffaele Resta, Maria J Ribal, Juan Gmez Rivas, Emma Smith, Robert Snijder, Carl Steinbeisser, Frederik Vandenberghe, Philip Cornford, Susan Evans-Axelsson, James NDow, and Peter-Paul M Willemse on the publication of in European Urology Open Science. The return Wednesday, April 17 (11 am 12 pm ET) a 2021 Titan Award honoreeYong Chenpresents his research onReal-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents: causal inference under misclassification in treatment status. This series is open to anybody:. The . This newsletter includes information on the recent standardized vocabulary release, a preview of the April Olympians collaborative activity, the latest collaborator spotlight on Melanie Philofsky, the monthly videocast, link to the nine published study from the OHDSI community in March, and plenty more. If you dont receive the newsletter in your inbox, . Melanie Philofsky is a Senior Business & Data Analyst with Odysseus Data Services, Inc. She is responsible for the harmonization of various healthcare data source into the OMOP Common Data Model to support research endeavors. Her area of expertise include clinical informatics, data analysis, data quality, ETL conversions, EHR data, the OMOP CDM and data modeling of new domains. Melanie wa the 2022 Titan Award honoree for Contributions in Data Standards. , she discus her career journey, her work with the Healthcare Systems and Themis workgroups, plan for the April Olympians Collab-a-thon, and more! The HADES-wide release 2024Q1 ha been released. This is a snapshot of the HADES package and their dependencies, thoroughly tested and confirmed to be mutually compatible. It is intended to be a stable environment for study and execution engines. Currently, the release is only available a an, but folk are working on container a well. The third annual OHDSI DevCon will be held virtually on Friday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pm ET. Join leader from our Open-Source Community for a day to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer within the OHDSI Community. More detail on the agenda will be posted when available. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Atif Adam announced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Quinta Ashcroft)Tuesday (Min-Gyu Kim)Wednesday (Min Ho An)Thursday (Robert Koski)Friday (Pavan Parimi)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to .Slides | | Video Presentation The April 2 (11 am ET) community call featured our first April Olympians session. Event co-leads Clair Blacketer and Melanie Philofsky provided the first update, including example of what the hunter and writer will do during the month, and detail on how to get involved throughout the month. Anton Ivanov also joined to discus the Perseus ETL tool.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Kipyo Kim, Ji-Eun Kim, Jae Ho Kim, Seong Hee Ahn, Chai Young Jung, Seun Deuk Hwang, Seoung Woo Lee and Joon Ho Song on the publication of in Scientific Reports. Congratulations to the team of Cindy Cai, Akihiko Nishimura, Mary Bowring, Erik Westlund, Diep Tran, Jia Ng, Paul Nagy, Michael Cook, Jody-Ann McLeggon, Scott DuVall, Michael Matheny, Asieh Golozar, Anna Ostropolets, Evan Minty, Priya Desai, Fan Bu, Brian Toy, Michelle Hribar, Thomas Falconer, Linying Zhang, Laurence Lawrence-Archer, Michael Boland, Kerry Goetz, Nathan Hall, Azza Shoaibi, Jenna Reps, Anthony Sena, Clair Blacketer, Joel Swerdel, Kenar Jhaveri, Edward Lee, Zachary Gilbert, Scott Zeger, Deidra Crews, Marc Suchard, George Hripcsak, and Patrick Ryan on the publication of in Ophthalmology Retina. Congratulations to the team of Joshua Ide, Azza Shoaibi, Kerstin Wagner, Rachel Weinstein, Kathleen E. Boyle and Andrew Myers on the publication of in Drugs & Aging. Congratulations to the team of Jens Weidner, Ingmar Glauche, Ulf Manuwald, Ivana Kern, Ines Reinecke, Franziska Bathelt, Makan Amin, Fan Dong, Ulrike Rothe, and Joachim Kugler on the publication of in JMR Public Health and Surveillance. Congratulations to the team of Valerie van Baalen, Eva-Maria Didden, Daniel Rosenberg, Kristina Bardenheuer, Michel van Speybroeck, and Monika Brand on the publication of in Pharmacoepidemiology & Drug Safety. The Seminar Series return Wednesday, April 17 (11 am 12 pm ET) a 2021 Titan Award honoreeYong Chenpresents his research onReal-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents: causal inference under misclassification in treatment status. This series is open to anybody:. The . This newsletter includes information on the recent standardized vocabulary release, a preview of the April Olympians collaborative activity, the latest collaborator spotlight on Melanie Philofsky, the monthly videocast, link to the nine published study from the OHDSI community in March, and plenty more. If you dont receive the newsletter in your inbox, . Melanie Philofsky is a Senior Business & Data Analyst with Odysseus Data Services, Inc. She is responsible for the harmonization of various healthcare data source into the OMOP Common Data Model to support research endeavors. Her area of expertise include clinical informatics, data analysis, data quality, ETL conversions, EHR data, the OMOP CDM and data modeling of new domains. Melanie wa the 2022 Titan Award honoree for Contributions in Data Standards. , she discus her career journey, her work with the Healthcare Systems and Themis workgroups, plan for the April Olympians Collab-a-thon, and more! The third annual OHDSI DevCon will be held virtually on Friday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pm ET. Join leader from our Open-Source Community for a day to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer within the OHDSI Community. More detail on the agenda will be posted when available. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Atif Adam announced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Edward Frankenberger)Tuesday (Theresa Burkard)Wednesday (Louisa Smith)Thursday (Anthony Sena)Friday (Pavel Goriacko)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. .SlidesVideo Presentation The March 26 community call featured a session on recent publication from the OHDSI community. OHDSI collaborator have published more than 600 study related to the OMOP CDM and/or OHDSI tool or methods, and we welcomed five lead author to present their recent publications.1) Tathagata Bhattacharjee University of London Frontiers in Digital Health2) Sulev Reisberg University of Tartu JAMIA Open3) Fan Bu University of Michigan Statistics in Medicine4) Jen Wooyeon Park Johns Hopkins University Journal of Imaging Informatics in Medicine5) Christian Reich Odysseus JAMIACommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Markus Haug, Marek Oja, Maarja Pajusalu, Kerli Mooses, Sulev Reisberg, Jaak Vilo, Antonio Fernndez Gimnez, Thomas Falconer, Ana Danilovi, Filip Maljkovic, Dalia Dawoud, and Raivo Kolde on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Philippe Mortier, Franco Amigo, Madhav Bhargav, Susana Conde, Montse Ferrer, Oskar Flygare, Busenur Kizilaslan, Laura Latorre Moreno, Angela Leis, Miguel Angel Mayer, Vctor Prez-Sola, Ana Portillo-Van Diest, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Ferran Sanz, Gemma Vilagut, Jordi Alonso, Lars Mehlum, Ella Arensman, Johan Bjureberg, Manuel Pastor and Ping Qin on the publication of in BMC Psychiatry. The third annual OHDSI DevCon will be held virtually on Friday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pm ET. Join leader from our Open-Source Community for a day to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer within the OHDSI Community. More detail on the agenda will be posted when available. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Atif Adam announced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Lu Li)Tuesday (Kevin Haynes)Wednesday (Jessica Mayumi Maruyama)Thursday (Dazheng Zhang)Friday (Michelle Hribar)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. .Slides | | | | |VideosINSPIRE datahub: a pan-African integrated suite of service for harmonising longitudinal population health data using OHDSI tool (Bhattacharjee)Transforming Estonian health data to the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) Common Data Model: lesson learned (Reisberg)Bayesian safety surveillance with adaptive bias correction (Bu)Development of Medical Imaging Data Standardization for Imaging-Based Observational Research: OMOP Common Data Model Extension (Park)OHDSI Standardized Vocabulariesa large-scale centralized reference ontology for international data harmonization (Reich) The March 12 community call featured a session on March Madness and April Olympians.March Madness:Less than two week after the latest release of OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies, this session found some of the most interesting and unique concept for a head-to-head showdown, March Madness style. Exploding head syndrome. Dragons Blood Extract. Collision of spacecraft with other spacecraft. And God Only Knows what else.April Olympians: Clair Blacketer provided a brief introduction to April Olympians, a month-long community activity that will focus on CDM and Themis conventions. More information and a registration link are below.Community Updates As mentioned above, Clair Blacketer and Melanie Philofsky will lead a month-long community activity in April that will focus on CDM and Themis conventions. There will be five goal of this event: Identify all currently ratified CDM and THEMIS convention for every CDM table and field Write clear documentation for each THEMIS convention Establish a repository for THEMIS convention Update the CDM documentation to link to relevant THEMIS repository entry Create CDM documentation related to expansion module effort around the communityIf you would like to participate in this event, . The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Evanette Burrows shared an update about a new release to the ETL-Synthea package v2.0.0 that went live on Feb. 26. The package ha been expanded to support current version of Synthea (v3.1 and v3.2) and ha a handful of other improvement and contribution from the community. Full release detail . Atif Adam announced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available . James Weaver, an Associate Director of Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research and Development, will speak during a panel session on Current Approaches for Distributed Analysis on Thursday, March 14 (1 pm ET) during a Health Data Research Network Canada event. This will be a virtual conversation; . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Andries Clinckaert)Tuesday (Shijia Zhang)Wednesday (Justin Bohn)Thursday (James Weaver)Friday (Craig Mayer)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared an opening for a at Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. .Slides | VideosMarch MadnessApril Olympians The March 5 community call focused on , which wa shared 29Feb2024, a well a a brief wrap-up discussion around Phenotype Phebruary 2024. The main session will be driven by leader from our vocabulary team: Alexander Davydov, Director, Lead of Medical Ontologies Odysseus Data ServicesOleg Zhuk, Vocabulary Technical Lead Odysseus Data ServicesAnna Ostropolets, Associate Director, Observational Health Data Analytics Janssen Research and DevelopmentCommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Aniek F Markus, Peter R Rijnbeek, Jan A Kors, Edward Burn, Talita Duarte-Salles, Markus Haug, Chungsoo Kim, Raivo Kolde, Youngsoo Lee, Hae-Sim Park, Rae Woong Park, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Carlen Reyes, Jerry A Krishnan, Guy G Brusselle, and Katia MC Verhamme on the publication of in BMJ Open Respiratory Research. Congratulations to the team of Behzad Naderalvojoud, Catherine Curtin, Chen Yanover, Tal El-Hay, Byungjin Choi, Rae Woong Park, Javier Gracia Tabuenca, Mary Pat Reeve, Thomas Falconer, Keith Humphreys, Steven M Asch, and Tina Hernandez-Boussard on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Star Liu, Asieh Golozar, Nathan Buesgens, Jody-Ann McLeggon, Adam Black, and Paul Nagy on the publication of in JAMIA Open. Congratulations to the team of Yi Chai, Kenneth K. C. Man, Hao Luo, Carmen Olga Torre, Yun Kwok Wing, Joseph F. Hayes, David P. J. Osborn, Wing Chung Chang, Xiaoyu Lin, Can Yin, Esther W. Chan, Ivan C. H. Lam, Stephen Fortin, David M. Kern, Dong Yun Lee, Rae Woong Park, Jae-Won Jang, Jing Li, Sarah Seager, Wallis C. Y. Lau, and Ian C. K. Wong on the publication of in Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences. Congratulations to the team of Quentin Marcou, Laure Berti-Equille, and Nol Novelli on the publication of in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Ross Williams is a scientific researcher working in the group of Dr. Peter Rijnbeek at Erasmus MC, where he is part of the. His main focus is creating tool and analysis method to develop personalised medical risk prediction. His specific area of interest are on the external validation of prediction models, net benefit assessment and technique for temporal health data analysis. He co-leads both the Patient Level Prediction workgroup and the Early-Stage Researcher workgroup. Ross discus his career journey, how observational data impact prediction models, the opportunity for junior researcher in OHDSI, and plenty more. The is now available. It includes link to all workgroup OKR presentation from last month, a well a update from Phenotype Phebruary. It also includes the monthly video podcast, 11 February publications, a new Collaborator Spotlight, and more. If you dont receive the monthly newsletter in your inbox, . James Weaver, an Associate Director of Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research and Development, will speak during a panel session on Current Approaches for Distributed Analysis on Thursday, March 14 (1 pm ET) during a Health Data Research Network Canada event. This will be a virtual conversation; . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Justin Quon)Tuesday (Clair Blacketer)Wednesday (Jason Patterson)Thursday (Tamar Zelovich)Friday (Martin Lavallee)Job Openings Priya Desai shared an opening for a who will partner with researcher and clinician to enable effective and efficient use of data and resource available via Stanfords research clinical data repository (STARR) including the Electronic Health Records in the OMOP Common Data Model, radiology and cardiology imaging data and associated metadata, and new data type a they get integrated along with their database and respective cohort query tool and interface e.g., OHDSI ATLAS. Alex Asiimwe shared three opening at Gilead that could be of interest to OHDSI collaborators. There are opening for a , a , and a . You can learn more about each position and apply using the link above. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. . There is an opening for an Epidemiology Graduate Intern at Johnson & Johnson. Among the responsibility for this remote position are assisting in managing epidemiologic study and literature review to characterize incidence, prevalence, risk factors, and associated comorbidities and treatment pattern for lung, head, and neck cancer across interventional oncology, contributing to the development of protocol for analyzing real-world data cohorts, such a SEER Medicare, and conducting quantitative analysis using both public and private data sources. .Slides | VideosVocabulary Release (Alexander Davydov, Oleg Zhuk, Anna Ostropolets)Phenotype Phebruary (Azza Shoaibi) Each community call during Phenotype Phebruary feature a set of Workgroup 2024 Objectives & Key Result (OKR) announcements, a well an update from that week Phenotype Phebruary activity and findings. Workgroups that presented during this call were FHIR + OMOP, Health Equity, the Africa Chapter, Electronic Animal Health Records, CDM Vocabulary, Phenotype Development & Evaluation, Dentistry, Medical Imaging, Medical Devices and GIS Geographic Information System. The Phenotype Phebruary update, led by Evan Minty and Eva-Maria Didden, reflected on finding from the first three weeks, a well a early research and critical question around the Week 4 phenotype, pulmonary arterial hypertension.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Christine Mary Hallinan, Roger Ward, Graeme K Hart, Clair Sullivan, Nicole Pratt, Ashley Ng, Daniel Capurro, Anton Van Der Vegt, Siaw-Teng Liaw, Oliver Daly, Blanca Gallego Luxan, David Bunker and Douglas Boyle on the publication of in BMJ Health & Care Informatics. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial and workshop on Oct. 22, the main conference on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Henrik John recently announced a new network study that he is leading with Chungsoo Kim, Jenna Reps and Egill Fridgeirsson on Deep Learning Comparison. The aim is to ass the value of deep learning method over conventional method for the development of clinical prediction models. The specific disease under consideration are dementia in individual over 55, lung cancer in those over 45, and bipolar disorder in patient misdiagnosed with major depressive disorder. If you would like to join this effort, for more information and reach out to the study lead by March 1. James Weaver, an Associate Director of Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research and Development, will speak during a panel session on Current Approaches for Distributed Analysis on Thursday, March 14 (1 pm ET) during a Health Data Research Network Canada event. This will be a virtual conversation; . Under the leadership of Azza Shoaibi, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao and James Weaver, Phenotype Phebruary 2024 focus on assessing consistency in phenotype definition components, phenotype representation structure, and phenotype validation methods. The month-long activity empowers OHDSI collaborator to engage with each other while advancing the science of phenotyping and gaining education and training around phenotype development and evaluation. . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Jessica Mayumi Maruyama)Tuesday (Tal El-Hay)Wednesday (Yuanyi Pan)Thursday (John Gresh)Friday (Stephanie Leonard)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared three opening at Gilead that could be of interest to OHDSI collaborators. There are opening for a , a , and a . You can learn more about each position and apply using the link above. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. . There is an opening for an Epidemiology Graduate Intern at Johnson & Johnson. Among the responsibility for this remote position are assisting in managing epidemiologic study and literature review to characterize incidence, prevalence, risk factors, and associated comorbidities and treatment pattern for lung, head, and neck cancer across interventional oncology, contributing to the development of protocol for analyzing real-world data cohorts, such a SEER Medicare, and conducting quantitative analysis using both public and private data sources. . . This is a remote position (US only, with mostly East Coast hours). This person will join a skilled and highly collaborative team of data analysts, software developers, and data scientist within our CTSA. The core purpose of this position is to support the All of Us Center for Linkage and Acquisition of Data project. We are looking for folk with SQL and health care and/or claim data experience, especially OMOP. There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.Slides |VideosWorkgroup Updates (FHIR + OMOP, Health Equity, the Africa Chapter, Electronic Animal Health Records, CDM Vocabulary, Phenotype Development & Evaluation, Dentistry, Medical Imaging, Medical Devices and GIS Geographic Information System)Phenotype Phebruary Update #4 Each community call during Phenotype Phebruary feature a set of Workgroup 2024 Objectives & Key Result (OKR) announcements, a well an update from that week Phenotype Phebruary activity and findings. Workgroups that presented during this call were Themis, Healthcare Systems, Generative AI and Foundational Models, Oncology, Vaccine Vocabulary, Patient-Level Prediction (PLP), ATLAS, Open-Source Community, Psychiatry, and Natural Language Processing (NLP). The Phenotype Phebruary update, led by Anna Ostropolets and Jamie Weaver, reflected on finding from the first two weeks, a well a early research and critical question around the Week 3 phenotype, major depressive disorder.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Martin Boeker, Daniela Zller, Romina Blasini, Philipp Macho, Sven Helfer, Max Behrens, Hans-Ulrich Prokosch and Christian Gulden on the publication of in Trials. Congratulations to the team of Moshe Zisser and Dvir Aran on the publication of in JAMIA. The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial and workshop on Oct. 22, the main conference on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. Henrik John recently announced a new network study that he is leading with Chungsoo Kim, Jenna Reps and Egill Fridgeirsson on Deep Learning Comparison. The aim is to ass the value of deep learning method over conventional method for the development of clinical prediction models. The specific disease under consideration are dementia in individual over 55, lung cancer in those over 45, and bipolar disorder in patient misdiagnosed with major depressive disorder. If you would like to join this effort, for more information and reach out to the study lead by March 1. James Weaver, an Associate Director of Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research and Development, will speak during a panel session on Current Approaches for Distributed Analysis on Thursday, March 14 (1 pm ET) during a Health Data Research Network Canada event. This will be a virtual conversation; . Under the leadership of Azza Shoaibi, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao and James Weaver, Phenotype Phebruary 2024 focus on assessing consistency in phenotype definition components, phenotype representation structure, and phenotype validation methods. The month-long activity empowers OHDSI collaborator to engage with each other while advancing the science of phenotyping and gaining education and training around phenotype development and evaluation. . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Maria Abrahao)Tuesday (Rupa Makadia)Wednesday (Aniek Markus)Thursday (Asieh Golozar)Friday (Danielle Boyce)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared three opening at Gilead that could be of interest to OHDSI collaborators. There are opening for a , a , and a . You can learn more about each position and apply using the link above. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. . There is an opening for an Epidemiology Graduate Intern at Johnson & Johnson. Among the responsibility for this remote position are assisting in managing epidemiologic study and literature review to characterize incidence, prevalence, risk factors, and associated comorbidities and treatment pattern for lung, head, and neck cancer across interventional oncology, contributing to the development of protocol for analyzing real-world data cohorts, such a SEER Medicare, and conducting quantitative analysis using both public and private data sources. . . This is a remote position (US only, with mostly East Coast hours). This person will join a skilled and highly collaborative team of data analysts, software developers, and data scientist within our CTSA. The core purpose of this position is to support the All of Us Center for Linkage and Acquisition of Data project. We are looking for folk with SQL and health care and/or claim data experience, especially OMOP. There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.Slides |VideosWorkgroup Updates (Themis, Healthcare Systems, Generative AI and Analytics in Healthcare (GAIA), Oncology, Vaccine Vocabulary, Patient-Level Prediction, ATLAS, Open Source Community, Psychiatry, and NLP)Phenotype Phebruary Update #3 Each community call during Phenotype Phebruary feature a set of Workgroup 2024 Objectives & Key Result (OKR) announcements, a well an update from that week Phenotype Phebruary activity and findings. Workgroups that presented during this call were Common Data Model, Network Data Quality, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Industry, Eye Care & Vision Research, and Surgery & Perioperative Medicine. The Phenotype Phebruary update focused on the finding from the Week 1 phenotype, Alzheimers Disease, a well a early research and critical question around the Week 2 phenotype, non-small cell and small cell lung cancer.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Xinyuan Zhang, Yixue Feng, Fang Li, Jin Ding, Danyal Tahseen, Ezekiel Hinojosa, Yong Chen, and Cui Tao on the publication of in BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making. Congratulations to the team of Tathagata Bhattacharjee, Sylvia Kiwuwa-Muyingo, Chifundo Kanjala, Molulaqhooa L Maoyi, David Amadi, Michael Ochola, Damazo Kadengye, Arofan Gregory, Agnes Kiragga, Amelia Taylor, Jay Greenfield, Emma Slaymaker, Jim Todd, and the INSPIRE Network on the publication of in Frontiers in Digital Health. Registration is now OPEN for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. If you are interested in joining the Scientific Review Committee for the 2024 Global Symposium, . The first meeting for the Scientific Review Committee will be held March 7. Henrik John recently announced a new network study that he is leading with Chungsoo Kim, Jenna Reps and Egill Fridgeirsson on Deep Learning Comparison. The aim is to ass the value of deep learning method over conventional method for the development of clinical prediction models. The specific disease under consideration are dementia in individual over 55, lung cancer in those over 45, and bipolar disorder in patient misdiagnosed with major depressive disorder. If you would like to join this effort, for more information and reach out to the study lead by March 1. James Weaver, an Associate Director of Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research and Development, will speak during a panel session on Current Approaches for Distributed Analysis on Thursday, March 14 (1 pm ET) during a Health Data Research Network Canada event. This will be a virtual conversation; . Under the leadership of Azza Shoaibi, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao and James Weaver, Phenotype Phebruary 2024 focus on assessing consistency in phenotype definition components, phenotype representation structure, and phenotype validation methods. The month-long activity empowers OHDSI collaborator to engage with each other while advancing the science of phenotyping and gaining education and training around phenotype development and evaluation. . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Kyle Zollo-Venecek)Tuesday (Nripendra Acharya)Wednesday (Xiaoyu Wang)Thursday (Jacob Zelko)Friday (Delia Harms)Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared three opening at Gilead that could be of interest to OHDSI collaborators. There are opening for a , a , and a . You can learn more about each position and apply using the link above. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. . . This is a remote position (US only, with mostly East Coast hours). This person will join a skilled and highly collaborative team of data analysts, software developers, and data scientist within our CTSA. The core purpose of this position is to support the All of Us Center for Linkage and Acquisition of Data project. We are looking for folk with SQL and health care and/or claim data experience, especially OMOP. There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.Slides | VideosWorkgroup Updates (Common Data Model, Network Data Quality, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Industry, Eye Care & Vision Research, and Surgery & Perioperative Medicine)Phenotype Phebruary Update #2 Each community call during Phenotype Phebruary feature a set of Workgroup 2024 Objectives & Key Result (OKR) announcements, a well an update from that week Phenotype Phebruary activity and findings; the Week 1 phenotype focus wa Alzheimers Disease. Workgroups that presented during this call were Methods Research, HADES, Perinatal and Reproductive Health, Registry, and the Steering Group.Community Updates If you are interested in joining the Scientific Review Committee for the 2024 Global Symposium, . The first meeting for the Scientific Review Committee will be held March 7. Collaborators from both the Columbia University Department of Biomedical Informatics and the Johnson & Johnson Observational Health Data Analytics held a three-day studyathon this past weekend with a focus on woman health initiatives, specifically endometriosis and polycystic ovary syndrome. Kerry Goetz is the Associate Director for the National Eye Institutes Office of Data Science and Health Informatics at the US National Institutes of Health. In this capacity she is responsible for advancing data management and sharing strategy to make NEI data FAIR (Fully AI-Ready & Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable). Kerry co-leads the Eye Care and Vision Research Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics Working Group. She discus her career journey, evidence gap around vision research, how OHDSI impact her PhD journey, . is now available. It includes detail on Phenotype Phebruary, reflection on where OHDSI can go together in 2024, the latest OHDSI videocast, and more community updates. It also includes link to 17 published study that came out of the OHDSI community in January. If you dont receive the monthly newsletter in your email, . February community call will focus on both Phenotype Phebruary update and 2024 OKR announcement by our various workgroups. All workgroup leads/representatives . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Javier Gracia-Tabuenca)Tuesday (Suhyun Kim)Wednesday (Seonji Kim)Thursday (Sarah Gasman)Friday (Michael Jackson)HADES Development Updates Martijn Schuemie announced the release of . The most important change are updating the Capr function call in the vignette (the old code wa no longer working), and CohortMethod now asks if you want to delete old file when you call runCmAnalyses() using an existing folder but different analysis setting than before. Ger Inberg announced the release of . It contains mainly bugfixes and furthermore the cohortId argument in exported function ha been deprecated, one should use cohortIds instead.Job Openings Alex Asiimwe shared three opening at Gilead that could be of interest to OHDSI collaborators. There are opening for a , a , and a . You can learn more about each position and apply using the link above. Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . Nathan Hall introduced a summer internship at Johnson & Johnson for an Epidemiology UX/Web Design Intern. This internship provides a unique opportunity to merge design principle with epidemiological research, contributing to the advancement of real-world evidence applications. In this role, you will have the opportunity to blend your passion for user experience (UX) and web design with the field of epidemiology, contributing to impactful project that enhance our ability to derive insight from health data. . . This is a remote position (US only, with mostly East Coast hours). This person will join a skilled and highly collaborative team of data analysts, software developers, and data scientist within our CTSA. The core purpose of this position is to support the All of Us Center for Linkage and Acquisition of Data project. We are looking for folk with SQL and health care and/or claim data experience, especially OMOP. There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.Slides | VideosWorkgroup Updates (Methods Research, HADES, Perinatal and Reproductive Health, Registry, Steering Group)Phenotype Phebruary Update #1 The third installment of Phenotype Phebruary is approaching, and the leadership team provided an overview of the initiative, it importance in research, and how this version of Phenotype Phebruary will take place in the OHDSI community. This talk also included a Phenotype 101 session, a well a a community vote on four phenotype to be focused on during the month. The selection were Alzheimers, pulmonary hypertension, major depression disorder and prostate cancer. This session wa led by: Azza Shoaibi Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research and Development Jamie Weaver Associate Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research and Development Anna Ostropolets Associate Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research and Development Patrick Ryan and Asieh Golozar also provided comments. , and you can . Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Soobeen Seol, Jimyung Park, Chungsoo Kim, Dong Yun Lee, and Rae Woong Park on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Sujin Gan, Chungsoo Kim, Dong Yun Lee, and Rae Woong Park on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Scott L. DuVall, Craig G. Parker, Amanda R. Shields, Patrick R. Alba, Julie A. Lynch, Michael E. Matheny, and Aaron W.C. Kamauu on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Piper Ranallo, Bronwyn Southwell, Christopher Tignanelli, Steven G. Johnson, Richard Krueger, Tess Sevareid-Groth, Adam Carvel, and Genevieve B. Melton on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of ChulHyoung Park, Sang Jun Park, Da Yun Lee, Seng Chan You, Kihwang Lee, and Rae Woong Park on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Seol Whan Oh, Soo Jeong Ko, Yun Seon Im, Surin Jung, Bo Yeon Choi, Jae Yoon Kim, Sunghyeon Park, Wona Choi, and In Young Choi on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Martijn Schuemie, Jenna Reps, Adam Black, Frank Defalco, Lee Evans, Egill Fridgeirsson, James P. Gilbert, Chris Knoll, Martin Lavallee, Gowtham A. Rao, Peter Rijnbeek, Katy Sadowski, Anthony Sena, Joel Swerdel, Ross D. Williams, and Marc Suchard on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Jiyun Cha, Eun Kyoung Ahn, Young-Heum Yoon, and Man Young Park on the publication of in Volume 310 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Najia Ahmadi, Quang Vu Nguyen, Martin Sedlmayr, and Markus Wolfien on the publication of in Scientific Reports. February community call will focus on both Phenotype Phebruary update and 2024 OKR announcement by our various workgroups. All workgroup leads/representatives . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week: Monday (Dmitry Dymshyts) Tuesday (Oleg Zhuk) Wednesday (Martijn Schuemie) Thursday (Selvin Soby) Friday (Jack Jenetzki) HADES Development Updates Martijn Schuemie announced the release of SelfControlledCaseSeries 5.1.1. This contains a fix of a minor bug introduced in 5.1.0. Job Openings Linying Zhang shared opening for both a and a at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to . . This is a remote position (US only, with mostly East Coast hours). This person will join a skilled and highly collaborative team of data analysts, software developers, and data scientist within our CTSA. The core purpose of this position is to support the All of Us Center for Linkage and Acquisition of Data project. We are looking for folk with SQL and health care and/or claim data experience, especially OMOP. There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM. Slides | Video Presentation The Jan. 23 community call looked at the recent UK Study-A-Thon, held last November at Saint Hildas College. The event focused on the use of fluoroquinolones across geography and over time, a well a on the epidemiology and characterization of rectal prolapse and rectopexy. At the end of an intense week, the team generated three draft manuscript almost ready for submission, and at least four conference abstract were in the making.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Xu Zuo, Yujia Zhou, Jon Duke, George Hripcsak, Nigam Shah, Juan Banda, Ruth Reeves, Timothy Miller, Lemuel Waitman, Karthik Natarajan, and Hua Xu on the publication of in the AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings. Congratulations to the team of Huzaifa Khan, Abu Saleh Mohammad Mosa, Vyshnavi Paka, Md Kamruz Zaman Rana, Vasanthi Mandhadi, Soliman Islam, Hua Xu, James C McClay, Sraboni Sarker, Praveen Rao, and Lemuel Waitman on the publication of in the AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings. Congratulations to the team of Joel Swerdel and Mitchell Conover on the publication of in the Journal of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences. Registration is open for the 2024 Oxford Summer School: Real world evidence using the OMOP Common Data Model, which will be held June 17-21, 2024 at the University of Oxford. The Real World Evidence Summer School will provide participant with the tool and concept necessary to plan and execute Real World Evidence studies, with a focus on the use of the OMOP common data model. . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Polina Talapova)Tuesday (Theresa Burkard)Wednesday (Chao Peng)Thursday (Tom Seinen)Friday (Jenna Repa)Job Openings . This is a remote position (US only, with mostly East Coast hours). This person will join a skilled and highly collaborative team of data analysts, software developers, and data scientist within our CTSA. The core purpose of this position is to support the All of Us Center for Linkage and Acquisition of Data project. We are looking for folk with SQL and health care and/or claim data experience, especially OMOP. There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.Slides | | | Video Presentation0:00 Daniel Prieto-Alhambra Professor of Pharmaco- and Device Epidemiology, University of Oxford (Introduction)1:28 Katherine Donegan Head of Epidemiology, MHRA (MHRA and the use of RWE)13:40 Annika Jodicke Senior Researcher in Pharmacoepidemiology, University of Oxford (Use of systemic fluoroquinolones in primary care and hospital setting in the UK: a drug utilisation study)28:52 Jennifer Lane NIHR Clinical Lecturer in Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery, Barts Bone and Joint Health, Queen Mary University of London (Rectopexy & the search for devices) The Jan. 16 community call featured multiple unrecorded breakout session meant to stimulate future collaboration opportunity throughout the community. The video below highlight the update shared at the beginning of the call, including a brief presentation on a recent community publication, Real-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Qiong Wu, Jiayi Tong, Bingyu Zhang, Dazheng Zhang, Jiajie Chen, Yuqing Lei, Yiwen Lu, Yudong Wang, Lu Li, Yishan Shen, Jie Xu, L. Charles Bailey, Jiang Bian, Dimitri A. Christakis, Megan L. Fitzgerald, Kathryn Hirabayashi, Ravi Jhaveri, Alka Khaitan, Tianchen Lyu, Suchitra Rao, Hanieh Razzaghi, Hayden T. Schwenk, Fei Wang, Margot I. Gage Witvliet, Eric J. Tchetgen Tchetgen, Jeffrey S. Morris, Christopher B. Forrest, and Yong Chen on the publication of in Annals of Internal Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Raivo Kolde, Nhung T H Trinh, Elena Roel, Edward Burn, Trishna Rathod-Mistry, Kristin Kostka, Wai Yi Man, Antonella Delmestri, Prof Hedvig M E Nordeng, Anneli Uuskla, Talita Duarte-Salles, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Annika M Jdicke on the publication of in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine. Anna Ostropolets will lead the next edition of the CBER Best Seminar Seminar series, which will be held Wednesday, Jan. 17, at 11 am ET. Anna will lead a session entitled KEEPER: Standardized structured data from electronic health record a an alternative to chart review for case adjudication and phenotype evaluation which will be virtual and available to anybody. . Chungsoo Kim is a PhD candidate in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Ajou University College of Medicine. Since joining OHDSI in 2019, he ha participated in and led several research project at OHDSI. He currently participates in OHDSI working groups, including PatientLevelPrediction and the APAC group. He also served a a tutorial instructor for the 2019 OHDSI Korea International Symposium. Chungsoo discus his research focuses, his involvement in the OHDSI community, the growth of OHDSI around the Asia-Pacific region, and plenty more . Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Dong Yun Lee)Tuesday (Yilu Fang)Wednesday (Hannah Morgan-Cooper)Thursday (Septi Melisa)Friday (Siwei Zhang)Job Openings There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.SlidesVideo Presentation Happy New Year! Patrick Ryan led the first community call of the year for a discussion on what OHDSI can achieve together in 2024. You can watch the recording or check out the slide below.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Yoon Jin Choi, Tae Jun Kim, Chang Seok Bang, Yong Kang Lee, Moon Won Lee, Su Youn Nam, Woon Geon Shin, and Seung In Seo on the publication of in the World Journal of Gastroenterology. Congratulations to the team of Pierre Heudel, Hugo Crochet, Thierry Durand, Philippe Zrounba, and JeanYves Blay on the publication of in PLOS Digital Health. Congratulations to the team of Cynthia Yang, Egill Fridgeirsson, Jan Kors, Jenna Reps and Peter Rijnbeek on the publication of in the Journal of Big Data. Congratulations to the team of Christian Reich, Anna Ostropolets, Patrick Ryan, Peter Rijnbeek, Martijn Schuemie, Alexander Davydov, Dmitry Dymshyts, and George Hripcsak on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Qiong Wu, Jiayi Tong, Bingyu Zhang, Dazheng Zhang, Jiajie Chen, Yuqing Lei, Yiwen Lu, Yudong Wang, Lu Li, Yishan Shen, Jie Xu, L. Charles Bailey, Jiang Bian, Dimitri A. Christakis, Megan L. Fitzgerald, Kathryn Hirabayashi, Ravi Jhaveri, Alka Khaitan, Tianchen Lyu, Suchitra Rao, Hanieh Razzaghi, Hayden T. Schwenk, Fei Wang, Margot I. Gage Witvliet, Eric J. Tchetgen Tchetgen, Jeffrey S. Morris, Christopher B. Forrest, and Yong Chen on the publication of in Annals of Internal Medicine. Chungsoo Kim is a PhD candidate in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Ajou University College of Medicine. Since joining OHDSI in 2019, he ha participated in and led several research project at OHDSI. He currently participates in OHDSI working groups, including PatientLevelPrediction and the APAC group. He also served a a tutorial instructor for the 2019 OHDSI Korea International Symposium. Chungsoo discus his research focuses, his involvement in the OHDSI community, the growth of OHDSI around the Asia-Pacific region, and plenty more . The is now available, and it includes the December video presentation of and . It also feature community updates, December publication and presentations, and plenty more. Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week:Monday (Maksym Trofymenko)Tuesday (Alicia Abellan)Wednesday (Henrik John)Thursday (Cindy Cai)Friday (Chen Yanover)HADES Development Updates Martiijn Schuemie announced the release of CohortMethod 5.2.0 and EmpiricalCalibration 3.1.2. The CohortMethod release focus on generalizability, by comparing the population after all adjustment (e.g. PS matching) to the population before all adjustments, and report any characteristic that have changed. The choice of population to consider for generalizability is now driven by your analysis choices. For example, if you use PS matching, (implying ATT), generalizability will be computed for the target (treated) population. Egill Fridgeirsson announced the release of DeepPatientLevelPrediction 2.0.3. This bugfix release only includes one change which wa necessary because one of my dependency introduced a breaking change (polars) which broke some functionality in the package. Joel Swerdel announced the release of PheValuator 2.2.11. This add the capability to include multiple visit per subject in the evaluation cohort.Job Openings There is an opening for . Among the responsibility is the design, implementation and testing of new data collection process including data collection form (DCFs) development, a well a the mapping of new item from DCFs to the OMOP CDM.Slides | Video Presentation 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI Community Calls Everybody is invited to the weekly OHDSI community call, which take place each Tuesday at 11 am ET. These call are meant to inform and engage our community through a variety of call formats, including community presentations, working group updates, breakout sessions, focus topics, newcomer-focused sessions, and more. The upcoming schedule is available to the right. to get to the weekly meeting.Videos and slide from previous 2022 call will be posted below. All presentation from . Both and from community call prior to 2021 remain available. Games, gratitude and an OHDSI version of Christmas Carol-oke were all part of our annual holiday-themed final call of the year! Thank you to everybody in the community for your hard work and camaraderie in 2022. Community call will resume Jan. 10, 2023. Happy holidays!Updates Congratulations to the OHDSI community in 2022, which set record with 111 publication by 2,057 cumulative authors. You can find all study from 2022 and before in , one of the new option developed by Paul Nagy and his team this year! Thamir AlShammary, an advisor to the President of the Saudi Food and Drug Authority (SFDA), ha been an active contributor to the OHDSI community for several years. He collaborates in several workgroups, including Population-Level Estimation, Health Equity and the recently-completed Vaccine Evidence WG, and ha been a contributor in several important network studies. He discus his background, his journey into OHDSI and the impact he ha seen, and why OHDSI can be a difference maker in generating trustworthy evidence, tool and best practice within the community, . Patrick Ryan introduced on the forum in November, and announced the two winner during the community call:Printable: Renke Los ()Interactive: Vishnu Vardhan Chandrabalan () from across 13 country have been selected from the final open call to join the EHDEN data network. The data partner from this call represent almost 200 million patient records, originating from various care settings, adding to the approximately 630 million record with the 166 partner working with EHDEN from the prior six calls. The next OHDSI community call will be Jan. 10. You will receive a new call invite after the start of 2023.OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Xinzhuo Jiang)Tuesday: (Jenna Reps)Wednesday: (Lu Li)Thursday: (Seng Chan You)Friday: (Jacob Zelko)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Video Presentation During the Dec. 13 community call, Patrick Ryan presented a comprehensive look back at the activities, publications, open-source development and more from the OHDSI community throughout 2022.Updates Congratulations to the team of Seng Chan You, Seongwon Lee, Byungjin Choi, and Rae Woong Park on the publication of in Korean Circulation Journal. Congratulations to the team of Ki-Yeol Park, Min-Ho Kim, Seong-Ho Choi, and Eun-Kyoung Pang on the publication of in the Journal of Periodontal and Implant Science. Congratulations to Nomie Elhadad, who wa selected to serve at Columbia University. DBMI is the coordinating center for the OHDSI community. Nomie ha been a long-time collaborator within the OHDSI community; she wa a panelist for the Women in Real-World Analytics Leadership Forum during the 2019 Symposium, she discussed HERA, a Large-Scale Characterization of Health Equity study, during the 2020 Symposium plenary, and recently led a breakout discussion on maternal health research during a May 2022 community call. Patrick Ryan introduced on the forum recently. All member of the OHDSI community are welcome and encouraged to submit their entry of the best ERD for the OMOP CDM to (or to the CDM Workgroup MS Teams site) by Tuesday, Dec 13. One winner will be selected by a committee from the CDM workgroup, and announced on OHDSIs last community call of the year on Dec 20.OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Asieh Golozar)Tuesday: (Michael Cantor)Wednesday: (Justin Bohn)Thursday: (Nathan Pajor)Friday: (Tiffany Callahan)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides | VideosYear In Review (Patrick Ryan) The Dec. 6 community call featured presentation on five recent publication that came out of our community: Sara Khalid (University Research Lecturer, Senior Research Fell in Biomedical Data Science and Health Informatics, University of Oxford) Xintong Li (PhD student, University of Oxford) Vclav Pape (Research Associate, UCL Institute of Health Informatics) Linying Zhang (PhD student, Columbia University) Joel Swerdel (Associate Director of Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research and Development)Updates Congratulations to the team of Veronika Pav, Andrew Burns, Courtney Colahan, Brian Robison, Jacob Kean, and Scott DuVall on the publication of in Military Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Berta Ravents, Alicia Abellan, Andrea Pistillo, Carlen Reyes, Edward Burn, and Talita Duarte-Salles on the publication of in the International Journal of Eating Disorders. Congratulations to the team of Edward Burn, Elena Roel, Andrea Pistillo, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Maria Aragn, Berta Ravents, Carlen Reyes, Katia Verhamme, Peter Rijnbeek, Xintong Li, Victoria Y. Strauss, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Talita Duarte-Salles on the publication of in Nature Communications. Congratulations to the team of Edward Burn, Xintong Li, Antonella Delmestri, Nathan Jones, Talita Duarte-Salles, Carlen Reyes, Eugenia Martinez-Hernandez, Edelmira Marti, Katia M. C. Verhamme, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Victoria Y. Strauss, and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on the publication of in Nature Communications. Congratulations to Anna Ostropolets, who successfully defended her dissertation at Columbia University last week. Her dissertation title wa Generating Reliable and Responsive Observational Evidence: Reducing Pre-analysis Bias. George Hripcsak announced that the OHDSI community received a grant from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative titled, Open source ontology to power an open science community. OHDSI ha a vocabulary to support international research, and it is already freely available; this grant expands it development and maintenance from a commercial group to the entire community. If you missed the symposium plenary session on , or if you wanted to engage in a discussion about the content, on Friday, Dec. 9, from 10 am 12 pm ET. We will rewatch the video in section and take break to engage in Q&A with presenter and other collaborator involved in the work. . The latest edition of OHDSIs official newsletter, The Journey, . It includes information on recent open-source developments, the OHDSI APAC Symposium, recent publication and presentations, and other community updates. If you dont get the newsletter monthly in your inbox, . Patrick Ryan introduced on the forum recently. All member of the OHDSI community are welcome and encouraged to submit their entry of the best ERD for the OMOP CDM to (or to the CDM Workgroup MS Teams site) by Tuesday, Dec 13. One winner will be selected by a committee from the CDM workgroup, and announced on OHDSIs last community call of the year on Dec 20.OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Frank DeFalco)Tuesday: (Juan Banda)Wednesday: (Mary Grace Bowring)Thursday: (Junhyuk ChangFriday: (Adam Black)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides | | | | VideosIntegrating real-world data from Brazil and Pakistan into the OMOP common data model and standardized health analytics framework to characterize COVID-19 in the Global South (Sara Khalid)Comparative risk of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome or thromboembolic event associated with different covid-19 vaccines: international network cohort study from five European country and the US (Xintong Li)Transforming and evaluating the UK Biobank to the OMOP Common Data Model for COVID-19 research and beyond (Vclav Pape)Adjusting for indirectly measured confounding using large-scale propensity score (Linying Zhang)PheValuator 2.0: Methodological improvement for the PheValuator approach to semi-automated phenotype algorithm evaluation (Joel Swerdel) The Nov. 29 community call featured our final workgroup update of 2022. We heard about four of our community workgroups from the following collaborators:Medical Devices Asiyah Lin(Data and Technology Advancement Scholar, NIH)Clinical Trials Tom Walpole(Chief Technology Officer, Trials.ai)Psychiatry Dmitry Dymshyts(Associate Director, Janssen R&D)Patient-Level Prediction Jenna Reps(Director, Janssen R&D)Updates Congratulations to the team of Nigel Hughes, Peter Rijnbeek, Kees van Bochove, Talita Duarte-Salles, Carl Steinbeisser, David Vizcaya, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, and Patrick Ryan on the publication of in JAMIA. The to collaborate with, the Data Analysis and Real-World Interrogation Network. The data available to these partner will be used for study to generate real-world evidence that will support scientific evaluation and regulatory decision making, and all have already been mapped to the OMOP CDM. You can learn more about how OHDSI is collaborating with DARWIN EU. The next OHDSI APAC Community Call will be Dec. 1 (Nov. 30 in the Western Hemisphere) and will recap the APAC Symposium. You can .Dmytry Dymshytsintroduced a charity opportunity to provide Christmas gift to Ukrainian child on the OHDSI forums. If you are interested to learn more, . Patrick Ryan introduced on the forum recently. All member of the OHDSI community are welcome and encouraged to submit their entry of the best ERD for the OMOP CDM to (or to the CDM Workgroup MS Teams site) by Tuesday, Dec 13. One winner will be selected by a committee from the CDM workgroup, and announced on OHDSIs last community call of the year on Dec 20. Anna Ostropolets will defend her dissertation at Columbia University on Wed., Nov. 30, with an open session scheduled for 10 am ET (). Her dissertation title is Generating Reliable and Responsive Observational Evidence: Reducing Pre-analysis Bias. Rupa Makadia wa the latest guest to join the Early-Stage Researchers Career Speaker Series. You . The next session will be held Monday, Dec. 12 (11 am ET), and Kristin Kostka will be the featured speaker. You can join the call at .OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Phan Thanh Phuc)Tuesday: (Jill Hardin)Wednesday: (Spencer SooHoo)Thursday: (Richard Boyce)Friday: (Charity Hilton)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides | | VideosMedical Devices (Asiyah Lin)Clinical Trials (Tom Walpole)Patient-Level Prediction (Jenna Reps)Psychiatry (Dmytry Dymshyts) The Nov. 22 community call featured another of our popular 10-Minute Tutorial sessions. Five of our community leader in open-source software development will provide quick tutorial on tool that you can use for your research:PHOEBE 2.0 Anna Ostropolets (PhD Student, Columbia University)Automated Comparator Selection Justin Bohn (Associate Director, Epidemiology at Janssen)Strategus Anthony Sena (Associate Director, Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen)Einstein-ATLAS Selvin Soby (Director, Informatics & Data Analytics at Montefiore)Broadsea Lee Evans (Founder, LTS Computing LLC)Updates Congratulations to the team of Yuan Peng, Elisa Henke, Ines Reinecke, Michle Zoch, Martin Sedlmayr, and Franziska Bathelt on the publication of in the International Journal of Medical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Yerim Kim, Seung In Seo, Kyung Joo Lee, Jinseob Kim, Jong Jin Yoo, Won-Woo Seo, Hyung Seok Lee, Woon Geon Shin on the publication of in Therapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders. Patrick Ryan introduced on the forum recently. All member of the OHDSI community are welcome and encouraged to submit their entry of the best ERD for the OMOP CDM to (or to the CDM Workgroup MS Teams site) by Tuesday, Dec 13. One winner will be selected by a committee from the CDM workgroup, and announced on OHDSIs last community call of the year on Dec 20. Anna Ostropolets will defend her dissertation at Columbia University on Wed., Nov. 30, with an open session scheduled for 10 am ET (). Her dissertation title is Generating Reliable and Responsive Observational Evidence: Reducing Pre-analysis Bias. Rupa Makadia wa the latest guest to join the Early-Stage Researchers Career Speaker Series. You . The next session will be held Monday, Dec. 12 (11 am ET), and Kristin Kostka will be the featured speaker. You can join the call at .OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase begin this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Victor Pera)Tuesday: (Briana Malik)Wednesday: (Natthawut Adulyanukosol)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides |VideosAutomated Comparator Selection (Justin Bohn)PHOEBE 2.0 (Anna Ostropolets)Strategus (Anthony Sena)Einstein-ATLAS (Selvin Soby)Broadsea (Lee Evans) The Nov. 15 community call featured some network study happening within our community, a well a an ARES Software Demo from the OHDSI Symposium.We heard about these study from the following leads:Expanding maternal and infant data from EHRs for pregnancy research Safety and Effectiveness of Anti-Hypertensive Medications in Pregnancy Project to Characterize Anti-Hypertensive, Anti-Coagulant, Anti-Diabetic and Antibiotic Medication Usage During Pregnancy and PostpartumAlison Callahan(Instructor, Medicine Stanford University)Stephanie Leonard(Instructor, Obstetrics & Gynecology Stanford University)Louisa Smith(Assistant Professor, Health Sciences Northeastern University)Relative Risk of Cervical Neoplasms Associated with Copper and Levonorgestrel Secreting Intrauterine Devices: Real World Evidence from the OHDSI NetworkMatthew Spotnitz(Postdoctoral Research Fellow Columbia University)Updates Congratulations to the team of Emily Jefferson, Christian Cole, Shahzad Mumtaz, Sam Cox, Tom Giles, Samuel Adejumo, Esmond Urwin, Daniel Lea, Calum Macdonald, Joseph Best, Erum Masood, Gordon Milligan, Jenny Johnston, Scott Horban, Ipek Birced, Christopher Hall, Aaron S Jackson, Clare Collins, Sam Rising, Charlotte Dodsley, Jill Hampton, Andrew Hadfield, Roberto Santos, Simon Tarr, Vasiliki Panagi, Joseph Lavagna, Tracy Jackson, Antony Chuter, Jillian Beggs, Magdalena Martinez-Queipo, Helen Ward, Julie von Ziegenweidt, Frances Burns, Joanne Martin, Neil Sebire, Carole Morris, Declan Bradley, Rob Baxter, Anni Ahonen-Bishopp, Amelia Shoemark, Ana M Valdes, Benjamin Ollivere, Charlotte Manisty, David Eyre, Stephanie Gallant, George Joy, Andrew McAuley, David W Connell, Kate Northstone, Katie Jeffery, Emanuele Di Angelantonio, Amy McMahon, Mat Walker, Malcolm Gracie Semple, Jessica Mai Sims, Emma Lawrence, Bethan Davies, John Kenneth Baillie, Ming Tang, Gary Leeming, Linda Power, Thomas Breeze, Natalie Gilson, Paul Smith, Duncan Murray, Chris Orton, Iain Pierce, Ian Hall, Shamez Ladhani, Matthew Whitaker, Laura Shallcross, David Seymour, Susheel Varma, Gerry Reilly, Andrew Morris, Susan Hopkins, Aziz Sheikh, and Philip Quinlan on the publication of in the Journal of Medical Internet Research. The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium wa held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There were both in-person and remote component to this event, including tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. Thank you to our APAC leadership team for putting together this event. Videos and slide from both and at the 2022 OHDSI Symposium have now been posted. Do you represent a healthcare system that ha adopted OMOP? The Healthcare Systems Interest Group is gathering evidence to support additional healthcare system adoption decisions, and the workgroup want to hear about the benefit your organization ha realized. !OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase begin this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Andrew WenTuesday: (Cynthia Yang)Wednesday: (Jianfu Li)Thursday: (Tanner Zhang)Friday: (Kevin Haynes)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides | VideosExpanding maternal and infant data from EHRs for pregnancy research (Alison Callahan, Stephanie Leonard, Louisa Smith)Relative Risk of Cervical Neoplasms Associated with Copper and Levonorgestrel Secreting Intrauterine Devices: Real World Evidence from the OHDSI Network (Matthew Spotnitz)Software Demo: ARES (Frank DeFalco) The Nov. 8 community call featured research from the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. The four recipient of the Best Community Contribution Awards were invited to present their research during this session. The honoree were:Data Standards:Analyzing the Effect of Hypertension on Retinal Thickness Using Radiology Common Data Model (R-CDM) (ChulHyoungPark, Rae Woong Park, Sang Jun Park, Da Yun Lee, Seng Chan You, Ki Hwang Lee)Methodological Research:Assessing Racial Fairness of Dialysis Allocation in End-Stage Renal Disease (Linying Zhang, Lauren R. Richter, David M. Blei, Yixin Wang, Anna Ostropolets, Noemie Elhadad, George Hripcsak)Open-Source Analytics:Cohort Definition Validation in Atlas (Charity Hilton, Saul Crumpton, Jon Duke) * unable to present during sessionClinical Applications:A Pilot Characterization Study Assessing Health Equity in Mental Healthcare Delivery within the State of Georgia (Jacob Zelko, Malina Hy, Varshini Chinta, Emily Liau, Morgan Knowlton, Jon Duke)Updates Congratulations to the team of Wallis C.Y. Lau, Carmen Olga Torre, Kenneth K.C. Man, Henry Morgan Stewart, Sarah Seager, Mui Van Zandt, Christian Reich, Jing Li, Jack Brewster, Gregory Y.H. Lip, Aroon D. Hingorani, Li Wei, and Ian C.K. Wong on the publication of in Annals of Internal Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Xiao Wang, Wenwang Rao, Xueyan Chen, Xinqiao Zhang, Zeng Wang, Xianglin Ma, Qinge Zhang on the publication of in BMC Psychiatry. Congratulations to the team of Emily Jefferson, Christian Cole, Shahzad Mumtaz, Sam Cox, Tom Giles, Samuel Adejumo, Esmond Urwin, Daniel Lea, Calum Macdonald, Joseph Best, Erum Masood, Gordon Milligan, Jenny Johnston, Scott Horban, Ipek Birced, Christopher Hall, Aaron S Jackson, Clare Collins, Sam Rising, Charlotte Dodsley, Jill Hampton, Andrew Hadfield, Roberto Santos, Simon Tarr, Vasiliki Panagi, Joseph Lavagna, Tracy Jackson, Antony Chuter, Jillian Beggs, Magdalena Martinez-Queipo, Helen Ward, Julie von Ziegenweidt, Frances Burns, Joanne Martin, Neil Sebire, Carole Morris, Declan Bradley, Rob Baxter, Anni Ahonen-Bishopp, Amelia Shoemark, Ana M Valdes, Benjamin Ollivere, Charlotte Manisty, David Eyre, Stephanie Gallant, George Joy, Andrew McAuley, David W Connell, Kate Northstone, Katie Jeffery, Emanuele Di Angelantonio, Amy McMahon, Mat Walker, Malcolm Gracie Semple, Jessica Mai Sims, Emma Lawrence, Bethan Davies, John Kenneth Baillie, Ming Tang, Gary Leeming, Linda Power, Thomas Breeze, Natalie Gilson, Paul Smith, Duncan Murray, Chris Orton, Iain Pierce, Ian Hall, Shamez Ladhani, Matthew Whitaker, Laura Shallcross, David Seymour, Susheel Varma, Gerry Reilly, Andrew Morris, Susan Hopkins, Aziz Sheikh, and Philip Quinlan on the publication of in the Journal of Medical Internet Research. Congratulations to the team of Tianchu Lyu, Chen Liang, Jihong Liu, Berry Campbell, Peiyin Hung, Yi-Wen Shih, Nadia Ghumman, Xiaoming Li, and member of the National COVID Cohort Collaborative Consortium on the publication of in PLOS ONE. The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There will be both in-person and remote component to this event, which will include tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. . The next edition of the Early-Stage Researcher workgroup Career Speaker Series will be held Monday, Nov. 14 from 11 am 12 pm, and will feature a conversation with Rupa Makadia, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Johnson and Johnson. .The latest edition of , and includes all link from the OHDSI Symposium, a well a the monthly video podcast, October publication and presentations, community updates, and plenty more. Videos and slide from both and at the 2022 OHDSI Symposium have now been posted. Do you represent a healthcare system that ha adopted OMOP? The Healthcare Systems Interest Group is gathering evidence to support additional healthcare system adoption decisions, and the workgroup want to hear about the benefit your organization ha realized. ! Volume 2 of Our Journey: Where the OHDSI Community Has Been, And Where We Are Going wa announced and presented at the OHDSI Symposium. is now available on OHDSI.org. If you are interested in ordering a set of book for your own institution, please send an email to Manny Khemai (), who represents the printing company.OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase begin this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Chungsoo Kim)Tuesday: (Martin Lavallee)Wednesday: (Maura Beaton)Thursday: (Anthony Molinaro)Friday: (Jason Hsu)Openings Northeastern University invite application for multiple tenured/ tenure-track faculty position in support of an Impact Engine centered on large-scale observational health data science and informatics to start in the fall of 2023. These faculty will be core member of our Real-World Healthcare Navigator (RWHN) Impact Engine which aim to change how research is translated into clinical practice by establishing a sustainable service that lead the way in fully reproducing health study (). Successful candidate will work closely with the OHDSI Center at Northeasterns Roux Institute to develop and apply healthcare analytics in the real-world evidence (RWE) area with the goal of improving patient health outcomes. . The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute seek a postdoctoral fellow to join their team focused on developing statistical method and applying them to observational data from large-scale federated datasets (e.g. electronic health record and administrative claim data), with specific application to the safety of biologics. This research will directly improve our ability to use real world data to characterize patient populations, construct population level estimate relating exposure to health outcomes, and to enhance clinical decision making through improved patient-level predictions. . FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides | | VideosAnalyzing the Effect of Hypertension on Retinal Thickness Using Radiology CDM (Chul Hyoung Park)Assessing Racial Fairness of Dialysis Allocation in End-Stage Renal Disease (Linying Zhang)A Pilot Characterization Study Assessing Health Equity in Mental Healthcare Delivery within the State of Georgia (Jacob Zelko) The Nov. 1 community call focused on Meeting the Titans. The recipient of the 2022 Titan Awards discussed their journey to OHDSI, work they did over the past year, and more. The 2022 Titan Award honoree were:Data Standards:Melanie Philofsky, Odysseus Date ServicesMethodological Research: Fan Bu, UCLAOpen-Source Development:Egill Fridgeirsson, Erasmus MC and James Gilbert, Janssen Research and DevelopmentClinical Applications:Xintong Li, University of OxfordCommunity Collaboration:Ajit Londhe, Boehringer IngelheimCommunity Leadership:Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins UniversityCommunity Support:Craig Sachson, Columbia UniversityCommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Philipp Wegner, Geena Mariya Jose, Vanessa Lage-Rupprecht, Sepehr Golriz Khatami, Bide Zhang, Stephan Springstubbe, Marc Jacobs, Thomas Linden, Cindy Ku, Bruce Schultz, Martin Hofmann-Apitius, Alpha Tom Kodamullil for the COPERIMOplus Consortium on the publication of in BioInformatics. Congratulations to the team of Hao Liu, Simona Carini, Zhehuan Chen, Spencer Phillips Hey, Ida Sim, and Chunhua Weng on the publication of in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Videos and slide from both and at the 2022 OHDSI Symposium have now been posted. The latest edition of , OHDSIs official monthly newsletter, is now available. It includes all detail from the symposium, other community updates, a video podcast, publication from October, and plenty more. Are you running a network study that you would like to announce, discus or call for collaboration about? The Nov. 15 community call will focus on network studies, and there is room for presenter to lead this session. Please reach out to Craig Sachson () if you are interested. Do you represent a healthcare system that ha adopted OMOP? The Healthcare Systems Interest Group is gathering evidence to support additional healthcare system adoption decisions, and the workgroup want to hear about the benefit your organization ha realized. ! Volume 2 of Our Journey: Where the OHDSI Community Has Been, And Where We Are Going wa announced and presented at the OHDSI Symposium. is now available on OHDSI.org. If you are interested in ordering a set of book for your own institution, please send an email to Manny Khemai (), who represents the printing company. The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There will be both in-person and remote component to this event, which will include tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. .OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Vipina Keloth)Tuesday: (Aniek Markus)Wednesday: (Eduard Korchmar)Thursday: (Ivan Chun Hang Lam)Friday: (Travis Zack)Openings FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .SlidesVideos George Hripcsak and Patrick Ryan led a session that included over 200 community member about what potential future direction the OHDSI community can consider. There were discussion around work in characterization, estimation and prediction, a well a how to strengthen a trio of OHDSI pillars: standardized vocabularies, standardized data network, and standardized open-source tools. This wa just the start of an ongoing conversation, so be on the lookout for future community call that address this topic.After the call, community member were asked to suggest and vote on future direction that OHDSI should consider. Voting will remain open for a day or two following the call, so .Community Updates Congratulations to the recipient of the Best Community Contribution Award from the 2022 Symposium.Data Standards: Analyzing the Effect of Hypertension on Retinal Thickness Using Radiology Common Data Model (R-CDM) (Chul Hyoung Park, Rae Woong Park, Sang Jun Park, Da Yun Lee, Seng Chan You, Ki Hwang Lee)Methodological Research: Assessing Racial Fairness of Dialysis Allocation in End-Stage Renal Disease (Linying Zhang, Lauren R. Richter, David M. Blei, Yixin Wang, Anna Ostropolets, Noemie Elhadad, George Hripcsak)Open-Source Analytics: Cohort Definition Validation in Atlas (Charity Hilton, Saul Crumpton, Jon Duke)Clinical Applications: A Pilot Characterization Study Assessing Health Equity in Mental Healthcare Delivery within the State of Georgia (Jacob Zelko, Malina Hy, Varshini Chinta, Emily Liau, Morgan Knowlton, Jon Duke) Congratulations to the team of Elzo Pereira Pinto Junior, Priscilla Normando, Renzo Flores-Ortiz, Muhammad Usman Afzal, Muhammad Asaad Jamil, Sergio Fernandez Bertolin, Vincius de Arajo Oliveira, Valentina Martufi, Fernanda de Sousa, Amir Bashir, Edward Burn, Maria Yury Ichihara, Maurcio L Barreto, Talita Duarte Salles, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Haroon Hafeez, and Sara Khalid on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Antoine Lamer, Mathilde Fruchart, Nicolas Paris, Benjamin Popoff, Anas Payen, Thibaut Balcaen, William Gacquer, Guillaume Bouzill, Marc Cuggia, Matthieu Doutreligne, and Emmanuel Chazard on the publication of in JMIR Medical Informatics. Are you running a network study that you would like to announce, discus or call for collaboration about? The Nov. 15 community call will focus on network studies, and there is room for presenter to lead this session. Please reach out to Craig Sachson () if you are interested. Do you represent a healthcare system that ha adopted OMOP? The Healthcare Systems Interest Group is gathering evidence to support additional healthcare system adoption decisions, and the workgroup want to hear about the benefit your organization ha realized. ! PIONEER is IMIS Big Data for Better Outcomes program. The research objective of the upcoming study-a-thon is to Identify amongst patient with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer treated with one of the approved treatment plans, which will experience progression and death during an established follow-up period. in Leiden, Netherland with an option to join remotely. There will be three main workgroups focusing on phenotype development, analytical package development and study execution by data owners. We welcome anyone who is interested to contribute your data, join one of the workgroups or simply come and observe. Volume 2 of Our Journey: Where the OHDSI Community Has Been, And Where We Are Going wa announced and presented at the OHDSI Symposium. is now available on OHDSI.org. If you are interested in ordering a set of book for your own institution, please send an email to Manny Khemai (), who represents the printing company. The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There will be both in-person and remote component to this event, which will include tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. .OHDSI Social Showcase The #OHDSISocialShowcase begin this week, a all the research from the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase will be presented on the and social feed over the next several months. You can see the research and the respective lead that will be shared this week.Monday: (Joel Swerdel)Tuesday: (Michael Gurley)Wednesday: (Stijn Dupulthys)Thursday: (Chungsoo Kim)Friday: (Hart P. Fogel)Openings FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .Slides | Video Patrick Ryan and Craig Sachson provided an overview of the OHDSI community, and all of the resource available on the OHDSI website, during the Oct. 18 community call. The video is posted below. Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Woo Kyung Bae, Jihoon Cho, Seok Kim, Borham Kim, Hyunyoung Baek, Wongeun Song, and Sooyoung Yoo on the publication of in JMIR Medical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Vaclav Papez, Maxim Moinat, Erica A Voss, Sofia Bazakou, Anne Van Winzum, Alessia Peviani, Stefan Payralbe, Michael Kallfelz, Folkert W Asselbergs, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Richard J B Dobson, and Spiros Denaxas on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Lara J Kanbar, Judith W Dexheimer, Janet Zahner, Evanette K Burrows, Robert Chatburn, Amanda Messinger, Christopher D Baker, Christine L Schuler, Dan Benscoter, Raouf Amin, and Nathan Pajor on the publication of in Pediatric Pulmonology. Congratulations to the team of Najia Ahmadi, Yuan Peng, Markus Wolfien, Michle Zoch, and Martin Sedlmayr on the publication of in the International Journal of Molecular Studies. Thank you to everybody who came out for the OHDSI 2022 Symposium this past weekend. All material (videos, slides, Collaborator Showcase research) will be posted when available. Please check out to find everything when it is posted. The 2022 Titan Award winner were announced during the closing of the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. Congratulations to all of our winners, and to the 50+ individual or group who were nominated! Visit to learn more about the award and to see all past recipients. Data Standards: Melanie Philofsky, Odysseus Date Services Methodological Research: Fan Bu, UCLA Open-Source Development: Egill Fridgeirsson, Erasmus MC and James Gilbert, Janssen Research and Development Clinical Applications: Xintong Li, University of Oxford Community Collaboration: Ajit Londhe, Boehringer Ingelheim Community Leadership: Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins University Community Support: Craig Sachson, Columbia University Volume 2 of Our Journey: Where the OHDSI Community Has Been, And Where We Are Going wa announced and presented at the OHDSI Symposium. is now available on OHDSI.org. EHDEN is hosting for European data partner who are interested in mapping their patient data to OMOP. Through six open calls, EHDEN wa welcoming 166 data partner across 26 country to it federated network, and this is the final opportunity to join this effort. The deadline to apply is Friday, Nov. 11. The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There will be both in-person and remote component to this event, which will include tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. . Openings FDA/CDERs Division of Hepatology and Nutrition is seeking a clinician with bioinformatics or biostatistics training to work with the Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI) Team to evaluate large datasets of liver-related data, collaborate on the Teams review of drug with hepatotoxicity signals, and help develop informatics-based process in DILI evaluation across the Agency. Contact Judy Racoosin at for information about the application process (that will be through USAJOBS). Andrew Williams recently announced two exciting new opening at Tufts Medicine. 1) for a multisite multiyear grant standardizing critical care EHR and waveform data. (CHoRUS Bridge2AI) 2) for Tufts Medicines OMOP instance and related services. Remote work is possible for both positions. If you have questions, please reach out to Andrew at . The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link . Slides Video Members of the 2022 Collaborator Showcase had 60 second to explain why people should visit their poster or software demo at the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. Check out the video at the bottom of this session.If you have not registered for the main conference or any of the other weekend events, or you want to learn more about #OHDSI2022, please visit our .Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Stephen Fortin, Jenna Reps, and Patrick Ryan on the publication of in BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making. The updated version of the is now available, and it includes all the poster and software demo that will be included in the collaborator showcase. If you havent registered yet, you can still do on our . EHDEN is hosting for European data partner who are interested in mapping their patient data to OMOP. Through six open calls, EHDEN wa welcoming 166 data partner across 26 country to it federated network, and this is the final opportunity to join this effort. The deadline to apply is Friday, Nov. 11. The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There will be both in-person and remote component to this event, which will include tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. .Openings The Johns Hopkins OHDSI team ha just put out an opening for a data scientist/statistical engineer position. The candidate is expected to help create further synergy between the domain expertise of Johns Hopkinss Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence and the extensive health data network provided through our OHDSI collaboration. More detail and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | SlidesVideo PresentationMad Minutes The Oct. 4 community call featured another session of OHDSI Debates. Four member of the OHDSI community joined to take part in two debates, and the community judged the winners!Debate 1: Where should we focus OHDSIs open-source development activities: Web-based front-ends to enable broader adoption vs. R package back-end development for advanced large-scale analyticsDebaters: Adam Black (Data Scientist, Odysseus Data Services, Inc.) vs. James Gilbert (Manager in Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research & Development)Debate 2: Strategy for OHDSI network studies: Get a many database a possible vs. Get enough to answer the question quicklyDebaters: Erica Voss (Senior Director, Janssen Research & Development) vs. Ed Burn (Senior Researcher in Epidemiology and Health Economics, University of Oxford)If you have not registered for the main conference or any of the other weekend events, or you want to learn more about #OHDSI2022, please visit our .Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Yerim Kim, Seung In Seo, Kyung Joo Lee, Jinseob Kim, Jong Jin Yoo, Won-Woo Seo, and Woon Geon Shin on the publication of in International Journal of Stroke. Congratulations to the team of Akihiko Nishimura,Junqing Xie,Kristin Kostka,Talita Duarte-Salles,Sergio Fernndez Bertoln,Mara Aragn,Clair Blacketer,Azza Shoaibi,Scott DuVall,Kristine Lynch,Michael Matheny,Thomas Falconer,Daniel Morales,Mitchell Conover,Seng Chan You,Nicole Pratt,James Weaver,Anthony Sena,Martijn Schuemie,Jenna Reps,Christian Reich,Peter Rijnbeek,Patrick Ryan,George Hripcsak,Daniel Prieto-Alhambra,and Marc Suchard on the publication of in Frontiers of Pharmacology. The update version of the is now available, and it includes all the poster and software demo that will be included in the collaborator showcase. If you havent registered yet, you can still do on our . There will be a Meet The Mentors session at the OHDSI Symposium. The purpose of this event is to give member an opportunity to network with OHDSI veteran through a speed-dating activity. If youre interested in having a 10 minute in-person conversation with a leading OHDSI researcher and veteran, , and the organizer will work to set you up with one of your top choices. You are welcome to chat with Mentors on any topics, including professional experience, career advice, finding a job in a field that interest you, and more. Do you want to promote your OHDSI poster or software demo during theMad Minutes Oct. 11 community call, the final one before the symposium? , and we will give a many collaborator a possible 60 second to tell the community why they should visit you during the Collaborator Showcase. The latest edition of is now available. It includes information on the symposium, the Clinical Registries and HTA Challenge sessions, a collaborator spotlight on Jing Li, publication from September, and plenty more. If you dont receive our monthly newsletter, . The new India Regional Chapter wa announced recently. Learn more about the chapter, it goals, and how to collaborate with this chapter . The 2022 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 at the Taipei Medical University in Taiwan. There will be both in-person and remote component to this event, which will include tutorial on Nov. 12 and the main conference on Nov. 13. .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | SlidesVideo PresentationDebate: Where should we focus OHDSIs open-source development activities: Web-based front-ends to enable broader adoption vs. R package back-end development for advanced large-scale analytics (Adam Black vs. James Gilbert)Debate: Strategy for OHDSI network studies: Get a many database a possible vs. Get enough to answer the question quickly (Erica Voss vs. Ed Burn) During the Sept. 27 HTA Challenge community call, international leader in health technology assessment led a session to figure out way that the OHDSI community can enhance the tool and standard for HTA around the world. This session wa led by Dalia Dawoud and Jamie Elvidge of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, and Marie Osterberg and Lena Wallgren from the Swedish Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Assessment of Social Services.If you have not registered for the main conference or any of the other weekend events, or you want to learn more about #OHDSI2022, please visit our .Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Rory J. McCrimmon, Alice Y.Y. Cheng, Gagik Galstyan, Khier Djaballah, Xuan Li, Mathieu Coudert, and Juan P. Frias on the publication of in Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism. Congratulations to George Hripcsak, chair of the OHDSI Coordinating Center at Columbia University, , the top honor in the field of informatics. He will receive this honor at the 2022 AMIA Symposium. The feature Jing Li, an Associate Director of Data Science at IQVIA. In this edition, Jing discus her career and how she moved into healthcare, her excitement about the growing APAC community, and plenty more. The is now available. Check out the main conference schedule, which includes a plenary on objective diagnostics, presentation around OHDSI support for regulatory authorities, the collaborator showcase and plenty more. The new India Regional Chapter wa announced last week. Learn more about the chapter, it goals, and how to collaborate with this chapter . Jon Duke recently announced an opening for a Branch Head Health Interoperability and Security-ICL in the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). The application deadline is Nov. 13, 2022.. Tim Burdick posted an opening for a Senior Database Developer at Dartmouth Health (DH). This position would be the lead developer for DH research database management systems, including OMOP, a well a i2b2, TriNetX, tiCrypt, and research use of REDCap. More information on this remote position, a well a an application link, . Talita Duarte-Salles, a 2020 OHDSI Titan Award honoree, recently announced an opening for a post-doc to join her Real World Epidemiology group at the The Institut dInvestigaci en Atenci Primria Jordi Gol (IDIAPJGol); .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | Video PresentationHTA Challenge The Sept. 20 community call focused on the 2022 Symposium. Patrick Ryan went through the full weekend, including the main conference and the full-day tutorial, to highlight all of the activity that will be happening Oct. 14-16.If you have not registered for the main conference or any of the other weekend events, or you want to learn more about #OHDSI2022, please visit our .Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Linying Zhang, Yixin Wang, Martijn Schuemie, David Blei, and George Hripcsak on the publication of in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Victor G. Castano, Matthew Spotnitz, Genna J. Waldman, Evan F. Joiner, Hyunmi Choi, Anna Ostropolets, Karthik Natarajan, Guy M. McKhann, Ruth Ottman, Alfred I. Neugut, George Hripcsak, and Brett E. Youngerman on the publication of in Epilepsia. The is now available. It includes a full schedule for the main conference on Oct. 14, a well a a listing of the software demo planned for the collaborator showcase (posters will be shared in a later version). The agenda also includes detail about the full-day tutorial on Saturday and the workgroup activity planned throughout the weekend. The new India Regional Chapter wa announced this week. Learn more about the chapter, it goals, and some of it leaders, . Jon Duke recently announced an opening for a Branch Head Health Interoperability and Security-ICL in the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). The application deadline is Nov. 13, 2022. . Talita Duarte-Salles, a 2020 OHDSI Titan Award honoree, recently announced an opening for a post-doc to join her Real World Epidemiology group at the The Institut dInvestigaci en Atenci Primria Jordi Gol (IDIAPJGol); . The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Current Status of OMOP-CDM in Asia-Pacific region and Lessons for Data Quality Assessment: Collaborative CDM Inspection Study (Chungsoo Kim)Tuesday Pregnancy extension table in the OMOP CDM (Alicia Abellan)Wednesday The EHDEN Portal an entry web platform for OMOP CDM resource (Jos Oliveira)2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | SlidesVideo PresentationsOHDSI2022 Symposium Preview. The Sept. 13 community call wa focused on Clinical Registry Efforts in OHDSI. We heard four presentation during this session: Howclinical registry and OHDSI can benefit from each other (Paul Nagy Program Director for Graduate Training in Biomedical Informatics and Data Science, Deputy Director of the Johns Hopkins Medicine Technology Innovation Center) How to adapt a manual clinical registry to OMOP (Matt Robinson Assistant Professor, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine) How to lower the ETL barrier going to OMOP with Perseus (Demonstration) (Zachary Wang Graduate Student, Johns Hopkins and 2022 Kheiron Cohort member) Lowering the deployment burden with the cloud (Lee Evans Owner, LTS Computing LLC)The following presentation wa planned, but it will be rescheduled due to time constraints. Distributed Machine Learning Using OMOP (Emily Pfaff Research Assistant Professor, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill)Videos and slide from these presentation are available at the bottom of this section.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Joao Rafael Almeida, Joao Paulo Barraca, and Jos Lus Oliveira on the publication of in Volume 298 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Guohui Xiao, Emily Pfaff, Eric Prudhommeaux, David Booth, Deepak K Sharma, Nan Huo, Yue Yu, Nansu Zong, Kathryn J Ruddy, Christopher Chute, and Guoqian Jiang on the publication of in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Benoit L Marteau, Yuanda Zhu, Felipe Giuste, Wenqi Shi, Ashley Carpenter, Coleman Hilton, and May D Wang on the publication of in the Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC). Congratulations to the 53 individual or team who were nominated for a 2022 Titan Award. The Titan Award recipient will be announced during the closing talk at the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. The 2022 recipient are:Thamir Alshammary Juan Banda Adam Black Fan Bu Montse Camprubi Yong Chen Marcel de Wilde Frank DeFalco Egill Fridgeirsson Jamie Gilbert Jake Gillberg Jason Hsu Nigel Hughes Yu-Chuan Jack Li Mik Kallfelz Andy Kanter Elisse Katzman Chungsoo Kim Greg Klebanov Chris Knoll Kristin Kostka Manlik Kwong Christophe Lambert Martin Lavallee Jing Li Xintong Li Star Liu Ajit Londhe Aniek Markus Evan Minty Paul Nagy Karthik Natarajan Aki Nishimura Anna Ostropolets Melanie Philofsky Gowtham Rao Berta Raventos Craig Sachson Martijn Schuemie Azza Shoaibi Marc Suchard Cynthia Sung Joel Swerdel May Terry Don Torok Cynthia Yang Jacob Zelko Center for Surgical Science Prediction study team LEGEND-T2DM N3C Thrombosis w Thrombocytopenia phenotype project team Vaccine Evidence Workgroup The is now available. It includes a full schedule for the main conference on Oct. 14, a well a a listing of the software demo planned for the collaborator showcase (posters will be shared in a later version). The agenda also includes detail about the full-day tutorial on Saturday and the workgroup activity planned throughout the weekend. The is now available. This newsletter includes community updates, link to 13 August publications, the symposium agenda, a video update podcast, and plenty more. If you dont subscribe to the newsletter, . Talita Duarte-Salles, a 2020 OHDSI Titan Award honoree, recently announced an opening for a post-doc to join her Real World Epidemiology group at the The Institut dInvestigaci en Atenci Primria Jordi Gol (IDIAPJGol); . The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Common data environment for source vocabulary mapping (Irina Zherko)Tuesday From ATLAS to predictive modeling CDM data extracting & Study preparation (Guy Livne)Wednesday Utilising real-world evidence for health technology assessment: development of a cancer survival use case (Ravinder Claire)Thursday Applying k-anonymity and l-diversity in OMOP CDM database (Joao Almeida)Friday Trial feasibility assessment in federated hospital EHR networks, based on OMOP CDM: An objective of the IMI EU-PEARL Consortium (Eva-Maria Didden)2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides| Video PresentationsClinical Registry Efforts Within OHDSI During the Sept. 6 community call, we learned about five published study that have come from our community over the last few months: (Nick Giangreco) (Cynthia Yang) (Anthony Molinaro) (Azza Shoaibi) (Aniek Markus)Videos and slide from these presentation are available at the bottom of this section.Community Updates Congratulations to the 53 individual or team who were nominated for a 2022 Titan Award. The Titan Award recipient will be announced during the closing talk at the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. The 2022 recipient are:Thamir Alshammary Juan Banda Adam Black Fan Bu Montse Camprubi Yong Chen Marcel de Wilde Frank DeFalco Egill Fridgeirsson Jamie Gilbert Jake Gillberg Jason Hsu Nigel Hughes Yu-Chuan Jack Li Mik Kallfelz Andy Kanter Elisse Katzman Chungsoo Kim Greg Klebanov Chris Knoll Kristin Kostka Manlik Kwong Christophe Lambert Martin Lavallee Jing Li Xintong Li Star Liu Ajit Londhe Aniek Markus Evan Minty Paul Nagy Karthik Natarajan Aki Nishimura Anna Ostropolets Melanie Philofsky Gowtham Rao Berta Raventos Craig Sachson Martijn Schuemie Azza Shoaibi Marc Suchard Cynthia Sung Joel Swerdel May Terry Don Torok Cynthia Yang Jacob Zelko Center for Surgical Science Prediction study team LEGEND-T2DM N3C Thrombosis w Thrombocytopenia phenotype project team Vaccine Evidence Workgroup The is now available. It includes a full schedule for the main conference on Oct. 14, a well a a listing of the software demo planned for the collaborator showcase (posters will be shared in a later version). The agenda also includes detail about the full-day tutorial on Saturday and the workgroup activity planned throughout the weekend. Please take so that we can update our data network information before the 2022 symposium. This survey (see image) should take le than 2 minutes; it asks for the name of the data partner, country, type of data, number of patients, and a contact person. The deadline for the survey is Sept. 9, but please do this at your earliest convenience. The is now available. This newsletter includes community updates, link to 13 August publications, the symposium agenda, a video update podcast, and plenty more. If you dont subscribe to the newsletter, . The next edition of the CBER Best Seminar will be held Wednesday, Sept. 7, at 11 am, with a presentation from Dr. Matthew Fox of Boston University on Quantitative Bias Analysis Methods to Improve Inferences. . The next edition of the Early-Stage Researcher Speaker Series will be held Monday, Sept. 12 (11 am 12 pm ET), when Jenna Repsdiscusses her career path, her work with the PatientLevelPrediction workgroup and more. . The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday External validation of existing dementia prediction model on observational data (Henrik John)Tuesday Characteristics and outcome of inflammatory bowel disease patients: an open, multinational OHDSI network study (Chen Yanover)Wednesday Mapping PROMs data from the Dutch PROFILES registry to the OMOP CDM experience and challenge (Peter Prinsen)Thursday OHDSI Germany: A recap after one year (Michele Zoch)Friday A dashboard for visual comparison of OMOP CDM database (Joo Almeida, Jos Oliveira)2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | | | | Video PresentationsA database of pediatric drug effect to evaluate ontogenic mechanism from child growth and development (Nick Giangreco)Development and external validation of prediction model for adverse health outcome in rheumatoid arthritis: A multinational real-world cohort analysis (Cynthia Yang)Empirical assessment of alternative method for identifying seasonality in observational healthcare data (Anthony Molinaro)Phenotype Algorithms for the Identification and Characterization of Vaccine-Induced Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia in Real World Data: A Multinational Network Cohort Study (Azza Shaoibi)TreatmentPatterns: An R package to facilitate the standardized development and analysis of treatment pattern across disease domain (Aniek Markus)https://youtu.be/lu4fcOXdlJs During the Aug. 30 community call, we heard about two exciting initiative coming from our colleague at the European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN), the EHDEN Portal and the EHDEN Academy. We were excited to have the following community leader lead this session:Julia Kurps (Team Lead, Real World Data The Hyve)Nigel Hughes (Scientific Director, Observational Health Data Analytics/Epidemiology Janssen Research and Development)Videos and slide from these presentation are available at the bottom of this section.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Rashmie Abeysinghe, Adam Black, Denys Kaduk, Yupeng Li, Christian Reich, Alexander Davydov, Lixia Yao, and Licong Cui on the publication of in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Congratulations to Dani Prieto-Alhambra onreceiving a Special ISPE Award for Contributions to Public Health Associated with the COVID-19 Pandemic during ICPE2022. The is now available. It includes a full schedule for the main conference on Oct. 14, a well a a listing of the software demo planned for the collaborator showcase (posters will be shared in a later version). The agenda also includes detail about the full-day tutorial on Saturday and the workgroup activity planned throughout the weekend. Please take so that we can update our data network information before the 2022 symposium. This survey (see image) should take le than 2 minutes; it asks for the name of the data partner, country, type of data, number of patients, and a contact person. The deadline for the survey is Sept. 9, but please do this at your earliest convenience. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Characterization of Health by OHDSI Asia-Pacific chapter to identify Temporal Effect of the Pandemic for Cardiovascular Diseases (CHAPTER-CVDs) (Seng Chan You)Tuesday The Finnish OMOP data network (FinOMOP) (Javier Gracia-Tabuenca)Wednesday Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on eating disorder among adolescent and young adult in Catalonia: a population-based cohort study (Berta Ravents)Thursday Challenges and possible solution for the maintenance of the OMOP CDM Standardized Vocabularies (Eduard KorchmarFriday An EHDEN Data Partner Experience: Transforming the Hospital i2b2 data repository into OMOP common data model (M Teresa Garcia Morales)2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration is for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | Video PresentationsEHDEN Portal (Julia Kurps)EHDEN Academy (Nigel Hughes) The Aug. 23 OHDSI community call featured the latest session of workgroup updates. We received annual update from the following workgroup leads. Registry Tina Parciak (PhD Student UHasselt/BIOMED) Latin America Jose Posada (Assistant Professor Universidad del Norte) Health Equity Jake Gillberg (Software Developer Tufts Clinical and Translational Science Institute) Geographic Information System (GIS) Robert Miller (Software Development Analyst Tufts Clinical and Translational Science Institute)Videos and slide from these presentation are available at the bottom of this section.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Shailja C. Shah, Andrew Canakis, Alese E. Halvorson, Chad Dorn, Otis Wilson, Jason Denton, in memoriam, Richard Hauger, Christine Hunt, Ayako Suzuki, Michael E. Matheny, Edward Siew, Adriana Hung, Robert A. Greevy, Jr., Christianne L. Roumie on the publication of in Gastro Hep Advances. Congratulations to the team of Joel Swerdel, Martijn Schuemie, Gayle Murray and Patrick Ryan on the publication of in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Please take so that we can update our data network information before the 2022 symposium. This survey (see image) should take le than 2 minutes; it asks for the name of the data partner, country, type of data, number of patients, and a contact person. The deadline for the survey is Sept. 9, but please do this at your earliest convenience. The feature Paul Nagy, an assistant professor at Johns Hopkins and a leader in the OHDSI community, especially within our developer network. He share thought on the new open-source community, how Johns Hopkins is joining the journey, and what hobby ha him covered moment before many OHDSI calls! All prior collaborator spotlight are . , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday The european health data &evidence network (ehden)sharing the ohdsi journey and a vision of evidence today, not in several tomorrow (Nigel Hughes)Tuesday Mapping UK Biobank to the OMOP CDM: development of USAGI(Maxim Moinat)Wednesday OMOP CDM for European rare disease registry (Rowdy de Groot)Thursday Impact of random oversampling and random undersampling on the development and validation of prediction model using observational health data (Cynthia Yang)Friday RCTrep: A package for the validation of method for treatment effect estimation using real world data (Lingjie Shen)Job Openings Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | | | Video PresentationsRegistry WG (Tina Parciak)Latin America WG (Jose Posada)Health Equity WG (Jake Gillberg)GIS WG (Robert Miller) The Aug. 16 OHDSI community call featured a session entitled Speed Dating, which saw the full attendance get broken into small group of 4-6 people over four session to introduce themselves, meet new member of the community and share thought on some fun question presented to them. The introduction were held in breakout rooms, so there isnt video of those, but the community update video is posted below.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Antoine Lamer, Mouhamed Djahoum Moussa, Romaric Marcilly, Rgis Logier, Benoit Vallet and Benot Tavernier on the publication of in the Journal of Clinical Monitoring and Computing. Congratulations to the team of Aurore Nishimwe, Charles Ruranga, Clarisse Musanabaganwa, Regine Mugeni, Muhammed Semakula, Joseph Nzabanita, Ignace Kabano, Annie Uwimana, Jean N. Utumatwishima, Jean Damascene Kabakambira, Annette Uwineza, Lars Halvorsen, Freija Descamps, Jared Houghtaling, Benjamin Burke, Odile Bahati, Clement Bizimana, Stefan Jansen, Celestin Twizere, Kizito Nkurikiyeyezu, Francine Birungi, Sabin Nsanzimana and Marc Twagirumukiza on the publication of in BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Conversion of Estonian health data into the OMOP CDM: insurance claims, prescription data and electronic health records(Marek Oja)Tuesday Developing a frailty concept in the OMOP CDM among sexual minority older adult (age 50+) in the All of Us database (Brianne Olivieri Mui)Wednesday CohortsExport: A Shiny app to explore and export data from the OMOP Common Data Model (Vittoria Ramella)Thursday Analyzing the impact of COVID-19 on the healthcare system: an OMOP-CDM framework applied to Northern Italy (Sara Conti)Friday Mapping UKB to the OMOP CDM: Challenges and Solutions (Sofia Bazakou)Job Openings Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | SlidesVideo PresentationCommunity Updates During the Aug. 9 OHDSI Community Call, lead of the six Asia-Pacific (APAC) regional chapter provided mid-year updates. Thanks to all of our presenter on this call, who shared the exciting work, activities, ongoing study and more:Jason Hsu (Taiwan)Mengling Feng (Singapore) Nicole Pratt (Australia)Tatsuo Hiramatsu (Japan)Seng Chan You (Korea) Lei Liu (China)Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Maryam Khodaverdi,Bradley Price,Zachary Porterfield,Timothy Bunnell,Michael Vest,Alfred Jerrod Anzalone,Jeremy Harper,Wes Kimble,Hamidreza Moradi,Brian Hendricks,Susan Santangelo,Sally Hodder,and the N3C Consortium Collaborators on the publication of in JAMIA Open. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! The latest edition of , and it includes detail about the CDM Update Process presentation, publication from July, community updates, presentation and more. If you dont subscribe to the newsletter, . The most recent Asia-Pacific (APAC) community call focused on two of the ongoing APAC network studies: Comparison of mortality, morbidity & healthcare resource utilization between patient with and without a diagnosis of COVID-19, and Real world safety of treatment for multiple sclerosis. Recording from that and all previous meetings, a well a the schedule and link for future meetings, are available . The OHDSI Social Showcase continues. Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Two Hurdles in delivery of productised analytics (Jack Brewster)Tuesday Macrolides use among patient with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease A drug utilization and prediction study (Victor Pera)Wednesday Challenges and solution in using OMOP CDM to FAIRify a Dutch ICU quality registry (Daniel Puttmann)Thursday Defining the valid analytic space for quantitative bias analysis in pharmacoepidemiology (Jamie Weaver)Friday Transforming Danish Registries to the OMOP Common Data Model: use case on the Danish Colorectal Cancer Group (DCCG) Database (Adamantia Tsouchnika)Job Openings Peter Rijnbeek and his team at Erasmus University is hiring a Secretary for the Darwin EU Coordination Center and Department of Medical Informatics. This position will be responsible for the day-to-day administrative task a the personal assistant for Peter Rijnbeek, and will also work a senior secretary for the Department of Medical Informatics, where you will support the staff together with a very experienced colleague. You will play a key role in enabling the research and education delivered by the department. Your work will include the usual responsibility of a senior secretary such a managing agendas, handing the communication lines, managing change in personnel, organizing (international meeting and conferences), etc. , and the deadline is Aug. 14, 2022. Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | |Video PresentationAsia-Pacific Regional Updates The focus of the Aug. 2 OHDS community call wa a panel discussion on what it take to build organizational support for adopting the OMOP CDM and OHDSI tools, a well a building organizational capacity for conducting observational research. Our panelist for this session included: Greg Klebanov (CTO/SVP Odysseus Data Services, Inc.) Ajit Londhe (Senior Manager, Center for Observational Research AMGEN) Keran Moll (Director, HEOR Real World Data & Analytics Research Regeneron) Paul Nagy (Program Director for Graduate Training in Biomedical Informatics and Data Science Johns Hopkins University)Video of this call wa posted below. Also, Behzad Naderalvojoud presented a new network study coming out of Stanford University: Development and External Validation of ML Models for Identifying Patients at Risk of Postoperative Prolonged Opioid Use (PORPOISE)A Network Study on OMOP Databases.Videos of both are available at the bottom of this section.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Karoline Bruner, Andreas W. Rosen, Adamantia Tsouchnika, Julie S. Walbech, Mikail Ggenur, Viviane A. Lin, Johan Clausen, and Ismail Ggenur on the publication of in the International Journal of Colorectal Disease. Congratulations to the team of Carina Nina Vorisek, Moritz Lehne, Sophie Anne Ines Klopfenstein, Paula Josephine Mayer, Alexander Bartschke, Thomas Haese, and Sylvia Thun on the publication of in JMIR Medical Informatics. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! The latest edition of , and it includes detail about the CDM Update Process presentation, publication from July, community updates, presentation and more. If you dont subscribe to the newsletter, . The most recent Asia-Pacific (APAC) community call focused on two of the ongoing APAC network studies: Comparison of mortality, morbidity & healthcare resource utilization between patient with and without a diagnosis of COVID-19, and Real world safety of treatment for multiple sclerosis. Recording from that and all previous meetings, a well a the schedule and link for future meetings, are available . The OHDSI Social Showcase ha returned! Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Comparing Data Quality Dashboard result from consecutive ETL iterations: two new visualization and one utility script (Anne van Winzum)Tuesday OHDSI-On-A-Pi: Containerization of OHDSI Software Tools for Use on a Raspberry Pi (Jared Houghtaling)Wednesday Integration prospect of the Ukrainian healthcare system with OMOP CDM (Mariia Kolesnyk)Thursday Patient treatment trajectory modeling with Markov chain (Markus Haug)Friday Assessing treatment effect heterogeneity using the RiskStratifiedEstimation R-package (Alexandros Rekkas)Job Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambras team at the University of Oxford is hiring two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences. In this position, you will support the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and manage own research and administrative activities, within guideline provided by senior colleagues. , and the deadline is August 8, 2022. Peter Rijnbeek and his team at Erasmus University is hiring a Secretary for the Darwin EU Coordination Center and Department of Medical Informatics. This position will be responsible for the day-to-day administrative task a the personal assistant for Peter Rijnbeek, and will also work a senior secretary for the Department of Medical Informatics, where you will support the staff together with a very experienced colleague. You will play a key role in enabling the research and education delivered by the department. Your work will include the usual responsibility of a senior secretary such a managing agendas, handing the communication lines, managing change in personnel, organizing (international meeting and conferences), etc. , and the deadline is Aug. 14, 2022. Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | |Video PresentationBuilding Organizational Support Panel (Paul Nagy, Keran Moll, Greg Klebanov, Ajit Londhe)PORPOISE Study Introduction and Call for Collaboration (Behzad Naderalvojoud) The July 26 community call featured a session led by Clair Blacketer, Paul Nagy and Davera Gabriel on what to do when your data doe not fit into the OMOP CDM. Our community continues to expand globally, and both individual and organization often look for new enhancement to the CDM. There will be a new decision tree and process implemented to try and streamline this procedure and to clarify how data model request are made and codified, and these were presented and discussed during this meeting. Video of this call is posted below. Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Martijn Schuemie, Faaizah Arshad, Nicole Pratt, Fredrik Nyberg, Thamir Alshammari, George Hripcsak, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Lana Lai, Xintong Li, Stephen Fortin, Evan Minty and Marc Suchard on the publication of in Frontiers inPharmacology. Congratulations to the team of Jimmy Phuong, Stephanie Hong, Matvey B. Palchuk, Juan Espinoza, Daniella Meeker, David A. Dorr, Galina Lozinski, Charisse Madlock-Brown, and William G. Adams on the publication of in the AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings Archive. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! The next Asia-Pacific (APAC) community call take place Thursday, July 28 (July 27 in the Western Hemisphere) and will focus on two of the ongoing APAC network studies: Comparison of mortality, morbidity & healthcare resource utilization between patient with and without a diagnosis of COVID-19, and Real world safety of treatment for multiple sclerosis. Links to the meeting and previous recording are available . Videos from all presentation are now available. The OHDSI Social Showcase ha returned! Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week. Monday Mapping of complex construct in OMOP CDM (Alexander Davydov) Tuesday Implementing the OHDSI Community Approach to Phenotype a Complex Medical Condition in European Primary Care Data (Kristin Kostka) Wednesday The use of data-driven vs. clinical based propensity score in covid-19 vaccine safety research (Xintong Li) Thursday Norwegian registry onto OMOP Common Data Model: mapping challenge and opportunity for pregnancy study (Elmir Hurley) Friday PHAROS, Platform for Harmonizing and Accessing Data in Real-time on Infectious Disease Surveillance Based on OMOP-CDM in Korea (Chungsoo Kim) Job Openings Peter Rijnbeek and his team at Erasmus University is hiring a Secretary for the Darwin EU Coordination Center and Department of Medical Informatics. This position will be responsible for the day-to-day administrative task a the personal assistant for Peter Rijnbeek, and will also work a senior secretary for the Department of Medical Informatics, where you will support the staff together with a very experienced colleague. You will play a key role in enabling the research and education delivered by the department. Your work will include the usual responsibility of a senior secretary such a managing agendas, handing the communication lines, managing change in personnel, organizing (international meeting and conferences), etc. , and the deadline is Aug. 14, 2022. Dani Prieto-Alhambras team at the University of Oxford is hiring two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences. In this position, you will support the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and manage own research and administrative activities, within guideline provided by senior colleagues. , and the deadline is August 8, 2022. Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link . 2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022. Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides Video Presentation CDM Update Process (Clair Blacketer, Paul Nagy, Davera Gabriel) The July 19 OHDSI Community Call featured a new set of workgroup updates:Early-Stage Researchers (Faaizah Arshad)NLP (Hua Xu)Phenotype Development & Evaluation (Gowtham Rao)HADES (Martijn Schuemie)Each of the update are available at the bottom of this sectionCommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Nicholas Tatonetti and Nick Giangreco on the publication of in Med. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! EHDEN from it most recent data partner call have been selected to join the federated data network, which already includes 134 data partner from 26 countries. The most recent Asia-Pacific (APAC) community call focused on two of the ongoing APAC network studies: Characterization of Health by OHDSI AP chapter to identify Temporal Effect of the Pandemic (Seng Chan You), and Data quality of OHDSI APAC: CDM Inspection study (Chungsoo Kim). A recording of the presentation is available here: . The next APAC call will focus on the other two study and will be held July 28. Videos from all presentation are now available. The latest edition of The Journey Newsletter, which includes update on the European Symposium, the SNOMED agreement, the 10-minute tutorials, a well a community updates, publication and presentations, . The OHDSI Social Showcase ha returned! Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Miniaturizing Data Harmonization; Methods to Facilitate Training in the OMOP Data Ecosystem (Emma Gesquiere)Tuesday TrajectoryViz: Interactive visualization of treatment trajectory (Maarja Pajusalu)Wednesday OMOP project evolvement at Technische Universitt Dresden over the past year (Ines Reinecke)Thursday Pharmacological treatment pathway of chronic cough in adult in primary care in the Netherlands: A population-based study (Johnmary Arinze, Solomon Ioannou)Friday De-identification of Clinical Notes for Patients with Infectious Disease and Topic Modeling using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (Junhyuk Chang)Job Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambras team at the University of Oxford is hiring two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences. In this position, you will support the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and manage own research and administrative activities, within guideline provided by senior colleagues. , and the deadline is August 8, 2022. Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | | | Video PresentationEarly-Stage Researchers (Faaizah Arshad)NLP (Hua Xu)Phenotype Development & Evaluation (Gowtham Rao)HADES (Martijn Schuemie) The July 12 OHDSI Community Call focused on new adopter and/or new community members. We were excited to hear from 22 people from around the world who are beginning their OHDSI journey.You can hear their backgrounds, research interest and way they hope to enhance the community in the video presentation below.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Ines Reinecke, Mirko Gruhl, Martin Pinnau, Fatma Betl Altun, Michael Folz, Michle Zoch, Franziska Bathelt, and Martin Sedlmayr on the recent publication of in Volume 295 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Anthony Molinaro and Frank DeFalco on the publication of in BMC Medical Research Methodology. Congratulations to the team of Gayathri Delanerolle, Robert Williams, Ana Stipancic, Rachel Byford, Anna Forbes, Sneha Anand, Declan Bradley, Ruby Tsang, Siobhn Murphy, Ashley Akbari, Stuart Bedston, Ronan Lyons, Rhiannon Owen, Jillian Beggs, Antony Chuter, Domnique Balharry, Mark Joy, Aziz Sheikh, F.D. Richard Hobbs, and Simon de Lusignan on the publication of in JMIR Formative Research. Congratulations to the team of Yae Won Tak, Seng Chan You, Jeong Hyun Han, Soon-Seok Kim, Gi-Tae Kim and Yura Lee on the publication of in the Journal of Korean Medical Science. Congratulations to the team of Erica Voss, Saberi Rana Ali, Arun Singh, Peter Rijnbeek, Martijn Schuemie, and Daniel Fife on the publication of in Drug Safety. Congratulations to the team of Emily Pfaff, Andrew Girvin, Tellen Bennett, Abhishek Bhatia, Ian Brooks, Rachel Deer, Jonathan Dekermanjian, Sarah Elizabeth Jolley, Michael Kahn, Kristin Kostka, Julie McMurry, Richard Moffitt, Anita Walden, Christopher Chute, Melissa A Haendel, and the N3C Consortium on the recent publication of in The Lancet Digital Health. , which recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development efforts, and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. If there are member or institution who have made significant contribution that you would like to recognize, please nominate them before the Sept. 2 deadline! Videos from all presentation are now available. The latest edition of The Journey Newsletter, which includes update on the European Symposium, the SNOMED agreement, the 10-minute tutorials, a well a community updates, publication and presentations, . The OHDSI Social Showcase ha returned! Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Mapping concept from the Netherlands Cancer Registry to the OMOP-CDM experience and challenge (Chiara Attanasio)Tuesday The journey from central operational data-lake to Medica Centers CDM network (Guy Livne)Wednesday Informativeness of clinical lymph node metastasis staging for patient undergoing curative intended surgery for colorectal cancer: A national multi-register study (Andreas Weinberger Rosen)Thursday Concept extraction from Dutch clinical text (Tom Seinen)Friday OHDSI Italia: the Italian national node of OHDSI Europe (Lucia Sacchi)Job Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambras team at the University of Oxford is hiring two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences. In this position, you will support the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and manage own research and administrative activities, within guideline provided by senior colleagues. , and the deadline is August 8, 2022. Brianne Olivieri-Mui and her team at The Roux Institute at Northeastern University ha one opening for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow beginning on or about September 1, 2022. The fellow will have an opportunity to conduct observational and administrative database research (e.g., analysis of existing datasets) on health outcome for older adult with HIV or LGBT older adults, under the supervision of the PI. The fellow will devote most of their time to independent research aligned with the PIs interest and across federated and local research models. More information and an application link .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | SlidesVideo PresentationNew Community Member Introductions The June 28 OHDSI Community Call, featured a full review of the 2022 OHDSI European Symposium!Nigel Hughes, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research & Development, provided a review of the 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, held June 24-26 in Rotterdam. This presentation highlight the panels, talk and collaborator showcase from Day 1, and it also includes detail on the Day 2 and Day 3 workshops.Keep following OHDSI.org for more information on the European Symposium, including recording from all event when they are available.There will be no community call on July 5.Community Updates Thank you to everybody who submitted brief report to join our #OHDSI2022 Collaborator Showcase. We had a record amount (more than 130!) of submission for poster presentations, software demo and oral presentation for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 in Bethesda, Md. The scientific committee meet this week to begin the process of reviewing all submissions, and selected presenter will be notified by August 1, 2022. Our July 12 Community Call will be focused on new adopter of the OMOP CDM or new member of the OHDSI community. We are welcoming people to introduce themselves, share why they have joined the community and what impact they hope to make, and also ask a question to the broader community. If you would like to take part in this event, . The OHDSI Social Showcase ha returned! Accepted submission from the European Symposium Collaborator Showcase will be shared on the OHDSI and feeds. Here are the poster that will be highlighted this week.Monday Why predicting risk cant identify risk factors: empirical assessment of model stability in machine learning across observational health database (Aniek Markus)Tuesday OMOP Genomic mapping capacity in conversion of comprehensive genomic profiling result (Maria Rogozhkina)Wednesday Perseus Design and run your own ETL to CDM (Anton Ivanov)Thursday Using geospatial approach and machine learning for asthma and COPD outcomes: a systematic review (Daniel Jeannetot)Friday A pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of using Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics analytics tool for supporting the validation of safety signal (Ceyda Pekmez) On behalf of the Health Systems Special Interest Group, lead Melanie Philofsky requesting assistance in a creating central repository of different OMOP sites, their underlying EHR system, and attributes. If you can add to this repository and enhance community knowledge,. As mentioned during the video presentation below, wa announced during the European Symposium. The Portal includes a Data Partner Catalogue and Feasibility Dashboards that support data discoverability (findable under Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable (FAIR) principles). The Portal represents the start of an open platform to facilitate identifying data that is likely to be used for a research topic, through the study workflow to analytical results. It give researcher more granular insight into EHDENs 140-strong Data Partner network with currently more than 500 million anonymous patient record being mapped to the OMOP common data model local to the data.Job Openings Odysseus Data Services posted two new opening recently. There are currently opening for an and a . Please check out the link for more information and/or to apply for these jobs. Professor Peter Rijnbeek announced to work with his team at Erasmus MC. This position will be responsible for all aspect of observational research including protocol writing, input in the statistical analysis plan, study execution, interpretation of result and report/manuscript writing. The application deadline is July 8, 2022.2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | Video PresentationEuropean Symposium Review (Nigel Hughes) The June 21 OHDSI Community Call featured four 10-minute tutorial on open-source tool developed within our community for use in global research initiatives:PheValuatorPresenter: Joel Swerdel Associate Director, Johnson & JohnsonPheKnowLaterPresenter: Tiffany Callahan Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Columbia UniversityPatient-Level PredictionPresenter: Jenna Reps Associate Director, Johnson & JohnsonCAPR (Cohort definition Application Programming in R)Presenter: Martin Lavallee Data Scientist, Odysseus Data ServicesCommunity Updates Showcase submission week ha arrived! All submission for poster presentations, software demo and/or lightning talk are due no later than 8pm (EST)on Friday, June 24. For more information, please visit our .Congratulations to the team of Jiayi Tong, Chongliang Luo, Md Nazmul Islam, Natalie E. Sheils, John Buresh, Mackenzie Edmondson, Peter A. Merkel, Ebbing Lautenbach, Rui Duan and Yong Chen on the publication of in Digital Medicine. Congratulations to the team of Emmanuel Uchenna Agu, Arman Mosenia, Jacob A Lifton, Lawrence Chan, Katherine G Ligtenberg, Drew Saylor, Reza Vagefi, Seanna R Grob, Robert Kersten, Melena Ahmad, and Bryan Winnon on the publication of in Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science. Congratulations to the team of Yongseok Mun, ChulHyoung Park, Da Yun Lee, Tong Min Kim, Ki Won Jin, Seok Kim, Yoo-Ri Chung, Kihwang Lee, Ji Hun Song, Young-Jung Roh, Donghyun Jee, Jin-Woo Kwon, Se Joon Woo, Kyu Hyung Park, Rae Woong Park, Sooyoung Yoo, Dong-Jin Chang & Sang Jun Park on the publication of in Scientific Reports. Congratulations to the team of Sooyoung Yoo, Eunsil Yoon, Dachung Boo, Borham Kim, Seok Kim, Jin Chul Paeng, Ie Ryung Yoo, In Young Choi, Kwangsoo Kim, Hyun Gee Ryoo, Sun Jung Lee, Eunhye Song, Young-Hwan Joo, Junmo Kim, and Ho-Young Lee on the publication of in Applied Clinical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Cynthia Yang, Ross Williams, Joel Swerdel, Joo Rafael Almeida, Emily S. Brouwer, Edward Burn, Loreto Carmona, Katerina Chatzidionysiou, Talita Duarte-Salles, Walid Fakhouri, Antje Hottgenroth, Meghna Jani, Raivo Kolde, Jan A. Kors, Lembe Kullamaa, Jennifer Lane, Karine Marinier, Alexander Michel, Henry Morgan Stewart, Albert Prats-Uribe, Sulev Reisberg, Anthony Sena, Carmen Torre, Katia Verhamme, David Vizcaya, James Weaver, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Peter Rijnbeek on the publication of in Seminars in Arthritis and Rheumatism. Congratulations to the team ofAnna Ostropolets, Patrick Ryan, Martijn Schuemie, and George Hripcsakon the publication of in JMIR Public Health and Surveillance. Congratulations to OHDSI veteran and Australia Chapter lead Nicole Pratt, who wa recent named . Nicole, whose interest in the effectiveness and safety of medicine use ha led her to collaborate on network initiative like LEGEND and EUMAEUS, wa featured in the latest edition . On behalf of the Health Systems Special Interest Group, lead Melanie Philofsky requesting assistance in a creating central repository of different OMOP sites, their underlying EHR system, and attributes. If you can add to this repository and enhance community knowledge, . Our July 12 community call will focus on new adopter of OMOP and/or new member of the community. We are looking for people to introduce themselves, and offering an opportunity to ask question to the community. If you would like to be part of this call, !Job Openings Odysseus Data Services posted two new opening recently. There are currently opening for an and a . Please check out the link for more information and/or to apply for these jobs. Professor Peter Rijnbeek announced to work with his team at Erasmus MC. This position will be responsible for all aspect of observational research including protocol writing, input in the statistical analysis plan, study execution, interpretation of result and report/manuscript writing. The application deadline is July 8, 2022. Professor Dani Prieto-Alhambra announced to work with his team at the University of Oxford. This position will develop analysis plans, protocols, ethical (and similar panel) submissions, governance and regulatory submission a required for ongoing and future studies. It will generate and analyze OMOP-mapped real world health data assets, adapt existing and develop new research methodology and materials. The application deadline is June 27, 2022.2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | | Video PresentationsPheValuator (Joel Swerdel)PheKnowLator (Tiffany Callahan)Patient-Level Prediction (Jenna Reps)Cohort definition Application Programming in R (Martin Lavallee) Our OHDSI community produced nearly 40 peer-reviewed and published study over the first five month of 2022, and five of the study lead were presented during our June 14 community call.Presenter:Yuan Lu Assistant Professor, Yale UniversityPresenter:Anna Ostropolets PhD Student, Columbia UniversityPresenter:Henrik John PhD Student, Erasmus UniversityPresenter:Jenna Reps Associate Director, Johnson & JohnsonPresenter:Aki Nishimura Assistant Professor, Johns Hopkins UniversityCommunity Updates Congrats to the team of Rohan Khera, Martijn Schuemie , Yuan Lu , Anna Ostropolets, RuiJun Chen, George Hripcsak, Patrick Ryan, Harlan Krumholz, and Marc Suchard on the recent publication of in BMJ Open. Congratulations to the team of Paul Heidera, Ronak Pipaliyab, and Stphane Meystre on the publication of in Volume 290 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Lamy Jean-Baptistea, Abdelmalek Mouazera, Karima Sedkia, and Rosy Tsopra on the publication of in Volume 290 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Mlanie Buy, William Digan, Xiaoyi Chen, Julien Husson, Mickael Mnager, Frdric Rieux Laucat, Nicolas Garcelon, and ATRACTion member on the publication of in Volume 290 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. The latest edition of the OHDSI Collaborator Spotlight focus on , whose interest in the effectiveness and safety of medicine use ha led her to collaborate on network initiative like LEGEND and EUMAEUS. She ha also played an important role in the continued growth of the APAC community. She share about her journey to OHDSI, her role in the community and more in this spotlight. The OHDSI community and SNOMED International have formalized their long-time relationship with a five-year collaborative agreement that will benefit both of their user communities. The SNOMED collaboration provides OHDSI and it user community with comprehensive ontology on specific healthcare domain and content such a devices, social determinant of health, disease severity score and modifier of cancers, a well a better concept definition and resolution of composite concept in large-scale observational research. In return, OHDSI and it user community can provide SNOMED International with information and feedback on clinical validation, frequency of use data, and validation of SNOMED CT content modeling. . The CBER Best Seminar Series is being rescheduled moving forward. Please be on the lookout for more information on when it will resume and who will be added to the schedule. We are le than two week away from the submission deadline for the 2022 OHDSI Global Symposium. All submission for poster presentations, software demo and/or lightning talk are due no later than 8pm (EST)on Friday, June 24. For more information, please visit our .Job Openings Professor Peter Rijnbeek announced to work with his team at Erasmus MC. This position will be responsible for all aspect of observational research including protocol writing, input in the statistical analysis plan, study execution, interpretation of result and report/manuscript writing. The application deadline is July 8, 2022. Professor Dani Prieto-Alhambra announced to work with his team at the University of Oxford. This position will develop analysis plans, protocols, ethical (and similar panel) submissions, governance and regulatory submission a required for ongoing and future studies. It will generate and analyze OMOP-mapped real world health data assets, adapt existing and develop new research methodology and materials. The application deadline is June 27, 2022.2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | | | | Video PresentationsAnalysis of Dual Combination Therapies Used in Treatment of Hypertension in a Multinational Cohort (Lu)Factors Influencing Background Incidence Rate Calculation: Systematic Empirical Evaluation Across an International Network of Observational Databases (Ostropolets)Logistic regression model for patient-level prediction based on massive observational data: Do we need all data? (John)Learning patient-level prediction model across multiple healthcare databases: evaluation of ensemble for increasing model transportability (Reps)Prior-Preconditioned Conjugate Gradient Method for Accelerated Gibbs Sampling in Large n, Large p Bayesian Sparse Regression (Nishimura) Patrick Ryan and Craig Sachson provided an overview of the OHDSI community, a tour of the OHDSI website and Teams environment, and a preview of the OHDSI Symposium collaborator showcase. Paul Nagy shared his journey to the community, and there wa a brief Q&A session.For all newcomer to the community, we will have a community call on July 12 focused on meeting new adopter of OMOP and answering any question you might have.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Erica Voss, Anna Ostropolets, Miguel Angel Mayer, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Filip Maljkovi, Biljana Carevi, Scott Horban, Daniel R. Morales, Talita Duarte-Salles, Clement Fraboulet, Tanguy Le Carrour, Spiros Denaxas, Vaclav Papez, Luis H. John, Peter R. Rijneek, Evan Minty, Thamir M. Alshammari, Rupa Makadia, Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco, Anthony Sena, Marc Suchard, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra and Patrick Ryan on the publication of in Drug Safety. The OHDSI community and SNOMED International have formalized their long-time relationship with a five-year collaborative agreement that will benefit both of their user communities. The SNOMED collaboration provides OHDSI and it user community with comprehensive ontology on specific healthcare domain and content such a devices, social determinant of health, disease severity score and modifier of cancers, a well a better concept definition and resolution of composite concept in large-scale observational research. In return, OHDSI and it user community can provide SNOMED International with information and feedback on clinical validation, frequency of use data, and validation of SNOMED CT content modeling. . is now available. This edition includes the DARWIN EU presentation and corresponding slides, a collaborator spotlight on Asieh Golozar, the latest on open study in the global community, the monthly update podcast and other community updates, all publication and presentation from May, and plenty more. If you arent already a subscriber, . The CBER Best Seminar Series is being rescheduled moving forward. Please be on the lookout for more information on when it will resume and who will be added to the schedule. We are le one month away from the submission deadline for the 2022 OHDSI Global Symposium. All submission for poster presentations, software demo and/or lightning talk are due no later than 8pm (EST)on Friday, June 24. For more information, please visit our . The Roux Institute will host a one-day on June 6. The event will be held in Portland, Maine, though you can attend this event virtually a well. The event, sponsored by Pfizer Inc., Northeastern University, the American Statistical Association (ASA), the Statistics Department and Data Science Institute at Columbia University, and OHDSI, is designed to serve a a platform for distinguished statisticians, data scientists, regulators, and other professional to address the challenge and opportunity of AI in pharmaceutical medicine; to foster collaboration among industry, academia, regulatory agencies, and professional associations; and to propose recommendation with policy implication for proper implementation of AI in promoting public health.Job Openings Professor Dani Prieto-Alhambra announced an opening for a Postdoctoral Data Scientist to work with his team at the University of Oxford. This position will develop analysis plans, protocols, ethical (and similar panel) submissions, governance and regulatory submission a required for ongoing and future studies. It will generate and analyze OMOP-mapped real world health data assets, adapt existing and develop new research methodology and materials. It will carry out collaborative research project with colleague in partner institution and report research finding in the form of conference abstract at national and international conferences. .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | Video Presentation Leads from the OHDSI workgroups joined the May 31 Community Call to go around and present what is happening within their respective team in relation to 2022 objective and key results. This wa an opportunity for the community to learn about all the current work happening around our community and to see how you can collaborate with our workgroups to achieve these goals.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Jenna Reps, Ross Williams, Martijn Schuemie, Patrick Ryan & Peter Rijnbeek on the publication of in BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making. Congratulations to the team of Elisa Henke, Ines Reinecke, Michele Zoch, Martin Sedlmayr, and Franziska Bathelt on the publication of in Volume 294 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Jose Manuel Saborit-Torres, Silvia Nadal-Almela, Joaquim Angel Montell-Serrano, Elena Oliver-Garcia, Hector Carceller, Jon Ander Gmez-drian, Marisa Caparrs-Redondo, Francisco Garca-Garca, Julio Domenech-Fernndez and Maria De La Iglesia-Vay on the publication of in Volume 294 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Ines Reinecke, Michael Kallfelz, Martin Sedlmayr, Joscha Siebel and Franziska Bathelt on the publication of in Volume 294 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Daniel Puttmann, Nicolette De Keizer, Ronald Cornet, Eric Van Der Zwan, Ferishta Bakhshi-Raiez on the publication of in Volume 294 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Emmanuelle Theron, Jean-Franois Gorse, and Xavier Gansel on the publication of in Volume 294 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Franziska Bathelt, Ines Reinecke, Yuan Peng, Elisa Henke, Jens Weidner, Martin Bartos, Robert Gtt, Dagmar Waltemath, Katrin Engelmann, Peter Schwarz, and Martin Sedlmayr on the publication of in Nutrients. We are le one month away from the submission deadline for the 2022 OHDSI Global Symposium. All submission for poster presentations, software demo and/or lightning talk are due no later than 8pm (EST)on Friday, June 24. For more information, please visit our . The Roux Institute will host a one-day on June 6. The event will be held in Portland, Maine, though you can attend this event virtually a well. The event, sponsored by Pfizer Inc., Northeastern University, the American Statistical Association (ASA), the Statistics Department and Data Science Institute at Columbia University, and OHDSI, is designed to serve a a platform for distinguished statisticians, data scientists, regulators, and other professional to address the challenge and opportunity of AI in pharmaceutical medicine; to foster collaboration among industry, academia, regulatory agencies, and professional associations; and to propose recommendation with policy implication for proper implementation of AI in promoting public health.Job Openings Professor Dani Prieto-Alhambra announced an opening for a Postdoctoral Data Scientist to work with his team at the University of Oxford. This position will develop analysis plans, protocols, ethical (and similar panel) submissions, governance and regulatory submission a required for ongoing and future studies. It will generate and analyze OMOP-mapped real world health data assets, adapt existing and develop new research methodology and materials. It will carry out collaborative research project with colleague in partner institution and report research finding in the form of conference abstract at national and international conferences. .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | SlidesCommunity Updates & OKRsVideo PresentationsAround The Workgroups The May 24 OHDSI Community Call shared six open study that are ongoing in our global network:IBD characterizationPresenter: Chen YanoverCharacterization of Health by OHDSI Asia-Pacific chapter to identify Temporal Effect of the Pandemic (CHAPTER) StudyPresenter: Seng Chan YouApplying the Decentralized Generalized Linear Mixed Effects Model (dGEM) for Hospital Profiling of COVID-19 Mortality Data across OHDSI NetworkPresenter: Jessie TongReal world safety of treatment for multiple sclerosisPresenter: Nicole PrattComparison of mortality, morbidity & healthcare resource utilization between patient with and without a diagnosis of COVID-19Presenter: Ivan LamQuality assessment of CDM database across the OHDSI-AP networkPresenter: Chungsoo KimCommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Emily Pfaff, Andrew Girvin, Tellen Bennett, Abhishek Bhatia, Ian Brooks, Rachel Deer, Jonathan Dekermanjian, Sarah Elizabeth Jolley, Michael Kahn, Kristin Kostka, Julie McMurry, Richard Moffitt, Anita Walden, Christopher Chute, Melissa Haendel, and the N3C Consortium on the publication of in The Lancet Digital Health. Congratulations to the team of Jin Ge, W. Ray Kim, Jennifer Lai, and Allison Kwong on the publication of in the Journal of Hepatology. Congratulations to the team of Justin T. Reese, Ben Coleman, Lauren Chan, Hannah Blau, Tiffany J. Callahan, Luca Cappelletti, Tommaso Fontana, Katie R. Bradwell, Nomi L. Harris, Elena Casiraghi, Giorgio Valentini, Guy Karlebach, Rachel Deer, Julie A. McMurry, Melissa A. Haendel, Christopher G. Chute, Emily Pfaff, Richard Moffitt, Heidi Spratt, Jasvinder A. Singh, Christopher J. Mungall, Andrew E. Williams & Peter N. Robinson for the publication of in Virology Journey. We are approximately one month away from the submission deadline for the 2022 OHDSI Global Symposium. All submission for poster presentations, software demo and/or lightning talk are due no later than 8pm (EST)on Friday, June 24. For more information, please visit our . The CDM Workshop that wa supposed to be held last Thursday, May 19, ha been moved to this Thursday, May 26 (1 pm ET). It will focus on ETL Vocabulary Mapping. If you are interested in taking part, . The Roux Institute will host a one-day on June 6. The event will be held in Portland, Maine, though you can attend this event virtually a well. The event, sponsored by Pfizer Inc., Northeastern University, the American Statistical Association (ASA), the Statistics Department and Data Science Institute at Columbia University, and OHDSI, is designed to serve a a platform for distinguished statisticians, data scientists, regulators, and other professional to address the challenge and opportunity of AI in pharmaceutical medicine; to foster collaboration among industry, academia, regulatory agencies, and professional associations; and to propose recommendation with policy implication for proper implementation of AI in promoting public health. EHDEN is looking to map their patient data to the OMOP CDM. Through it first five open calls, EHDEN ha created a federated data network of 140 partner across 26 countries, and it ha also trained and certified 47 SMEs to assist with mapping this data. Data Partners can benefit from up to a maximum of 100 000 funding. The deadline to apply is June 14, 2022.2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | Slides | | | | | | Video PresentationsIBD characterization (Yanover)Characterization of Health by OHDSI Asia-Pacific chapter to identify Temporal Effect of the Pandemic (CHAPTER) Study (You)https://https://youtu.be/swSC-IQdXmsApplying the Decentralized Generalized Linear Mixed Effects Model (dGEM) for Hospital Profiling of COVID-19 Mortality Data across OHDSI Network (Tong)Real world safety of treatment for multiple sclerosis (Pratt)Comparison of mortality, morbidity & healthcare resource utilization between patient with and without a diagnosis of COVID-19 (Lam)Applying the DecentraQuality assessment of CDM database across the OHDSI-AP network (Kim) The May 17 OHDSI Community Call brought back a popular format, the OHDSI Debates. We hosted two debate and had the community vote on the winner!Debate 1: Phenotype Development: One-size-fits-all vs. Tailored-per-databasesDebaters: Azza Shoaibi (Associate Director, Janssen Research & Development) and Asieh Golozar (VP, Global Head of Data Science, Odysseus Data Services, Inc.)Debate 2: Study Diagnostics: Nice-to-have vs. Essential requirementsDebaters: Dani Prieto-Alhambra (Professor, Univ. of Oxford and Erasmus Univ.) and Martijn Schuemie (Research Fellow, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research & DevelopmentCommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Justin Reese, Ben Coleman, Lauren Chan, Hannah Blau, Tiffany J. Callahan, Luca Cappelletti, Tommaso Fontana, Katie R. Bradwell, Nomi L. Harris, Elena Casiraghi, Giorgio Valentini, Guy Karlebach, Rachel Deer, Julie A. McMurry, Melissa A. Haendel, Christopher G. Chute, Emily Pfaff, Richard Moffitt, Heidi Spratt, Jasvinder A. Singh, Christopher J. Mungall, Andrew E. Williams & Peter N. Robinson on the publication of in Virology Journal. Congratulations to the team of Edward Burn, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Carlen Reyes, Kristin Kostka, Antonella Delmestri, Peter Rijnbeek, Katia Verhamme, and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on the publication of in The Lancet Infectious Diseases. The next CDM Workshop will be held inside MS Teams this Thursday, May 19 (1 pm ET), and it will focus on ETL Vocabulary Mapping. If you are interested in taking part, . The Roux Institute will host a one-day on June 6. The event will be held in Portland, Maine, though you can attend this event virtually a well. The event, sponsored by Pfizer Inc., Northeastern University, the American Statistical Association (ASA), the Statistics Department and Data Science Institute at Columbia University, and OHDSI, is designed to serve a a platform for distinguished statisticians, data scientists, regulators, and other professional to address the challenge and opportunity of AI in pharmaceutical medicine; to foster collaboration among industry, academia, regulatory agencies, and professional associations; and to propose recommendation with policy implication for proper implementation of AI in promoting public health. EHDEN is looking to map their patient data to the OMOP CDM. Through it first five open calls, EHDEN ha created a federated data network of 140 partner across 26 countries, and it ha also trained and certified 47 SMEs to assist with mapping this data. Data Partners can benefit from up to a maximum of 100 000 funding. The deadline to apply is June 14, 2022. All the talk and workshop from DevCon 2022 have now been uploaded to the . Want to help provide the foundation for future advance in OHDSI global research, and receive some benefit for your company in return? Check out , which includes from George Hripcsak.2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2022.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workgroup Activities: | 2022 OHDSI European Symposium The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Video PresentationsDebate 1: Phenotype Development: One-size-fits-all vs. Tailored-per-databases (Shoaibi vs. Golozar)Debate 2: Study Diagnostics: Nice-to-have vs. Essential requirement (Schuemie vs. Prieto-Alhambra) The May 10 Community Call featured three Mothers Day-themed conversations, facilitated by member of our community. There were discussion around clinical research opportunities, community building and data standards, and they were meant to be open conversation to address challenge within our community and/or the healthcare field.The three discussion (all of which are posted below) and facilitator were:Clinical Research Opportunities: Brainstorm on maternal health Alison Callahan, Research Scientist, Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Ru-fong Cheng, Senior Medical Director, Womens Health, Office of the Chief Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson Nomie Elhadad, Associate Professor of Biomedical Informatics; Vice Chair, Research, Columbia Department of Biomedical InformaticsHow can OHDSI support collaborator mother to advance their personal and professional development? Rupa Makadia, Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research and Development Sarah Seager, Director of Data Science, OMOP at IQVIARecommended best practice for modeling pregnancy episode and mother-child linkage Jill Hardin, Associate Director, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research and Development Mui Van Zandt, VP & GM Real World Data & Tech, IQVIACommunity Updates Congratulations to the team of Fatemeh Amrollahi, Supreeth P Shashikumar, Angela Meier, Lucila Ohno-Machado, Shamim Nemati, and Gabriel Wardi on the publication of in JAMIA. Registration is now open for workgroup activity and meeting during the weekend of the 2022 OHDSI Global Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. , and then (these meeting are free, but registration is important because this will be first-come, first-served due to room capacity). All the talk and workshop from DevCon 2022 have now been uploaded to the . Last week APAC Community Call included a presentation from Gowtham Rao on how to take advantage of the cohort diagnostics tool using one of the ongoing APAC study a an example. You can find the recording . It wa also announced on the last APAC call that the 2022 OHDSI APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 12-13 in Taipei, Taiwan. There will be both an on-site and virtual component to this event. Please follow for more information. The , and it includes all the key information from DevCon, link to 10 community publication from April, detail on the Sponsorship Program and other updates. If you dont receive the monthly newsletter, . Are you running a network study and seeking collaboration or data partners? Our May 24 community call will be focused on Open Studies, and we are looking for presenters. If you would like to join this call, please contact Craig Sachson at . Want to help provide the foundation for future advance in OHDSI global research, and receive some benefit for your company in return? Check out , which includes from George Hripcsak.Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambra and his team at Oxford are recruiting a Database Programmer to join the team. This position will contribute to the standardization and curation of large real world data from the UK and collaborate with the OHDSI, EHDEN and OPTIMA Oncology teams. More information and the application link . The application deadline is May 23, 2022. Peter Reinbeek and the Erasmus Medical Center team shared an opening for an R Programmer in Health Data Science. This position will be responsible for designing, developing, documenting, and maintaining R code that will be executed against health data that is standardized to the OMOP Common Data Model. More information and the application link . As mentioned by Sally Baxter and Kerry Goetz during a recent community call, the National Eye Institute is looking for a DATA Scholar to develop a strategy and lead community consensus building to improve ocular health care through data standardization. Among other responsibilities, this person will build on community expertise of the OMOP CDM to advance standard representation of ocular concepts. . Cynthia Sung shared a recent summer internship opportunity in the Bill & Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute. One internship of potential interest to the community is seeking a candidate in the area of computational biology, computer science or bioengineering major who is proficient in coding in SQL and R or Python to transform Tuberculosis clinical trial data into the OMOP CDM. . Daniel Smith shared a recent opening at Emory University in Atlanta for an Informatics Analyst; this position will provide OMOP support for Winship Data and Winship Discovery projects. You can .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | Oct. 15-16 Workshop Activities: | 2022 OHDSI European Symposium The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .SlidesVideo PresentationsClinical Research Opportunities: Brainstorm on maternal health (Alison Callahan, Ru-fong Cheng, Nomie Elhadad)How can OHDSI support collaborator mother to advance their personal/professional development? (Rupa Makadia, Sarah Seager)Recommended best practice for modeling pregnancy episode and mother-child linkage (Jill Hardin, Mui Van Zandt) The May 3 Community Call focused on the DARWIN EU Initiative, a well a how the OHDSI community can impact this new push towards using real-world evidence to impact healthcare.The vision of DARWIN EU is to give the European Medicines Agency and national competent authority in EU Member States access to valid and trustworthy real-world evidence, for example on diseases, patient populations, and the use, safety and effectiveness of medicines, including vaccines, throughout the lifecycle of a medicinal product.The Erasmus Medical Center ha earned the contract a the coordinating center for DARWIN EU. Peter Rijnbeek, Head of the Department of Medical Informatics at Erasmus Medical Center, led this presentation about the DARWIN EU mission and five-year plan, the role of the coordinating center, and how OHDSI tool and standard can and will impact this initiative.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Anna Ostropolets, Xintong Li, Rupa Makadia, Gowtham Rao, Peter Rijnbeek, Talita Duarte-Salles, Anthony Sena, Azza Shaoibi, Marc Suchard, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra and George Hripcsak on the publication of in Frontiers of Pharmacology. Congratulations to the team of Juan Quiroz, Tim Chard, Zhisheng Sa, Angus Ritchie, Louisa Jorm and Blanca Gallego on the publication of in PLOS One. All the talk and workshop from DevCon 2022 have now been uploaded to the . A big announcement from DevCon wa the formation of the Khieron Contributor Cohort, which will help onboard and mentor open-source developer in the community. If you are interested in joining the effort, ; the deadline is THIS FRIDAY, May 6. This week APAC Community Call (May 5 in the Eastern Hemisphere, May 4 in the Western Hemisphere) will include a presentation from Gowtham Rao, who will present how to take advantage of the cohort diagnostics tool using one of the ongoing APAC study a an example. You can get the call invitation by joining the APAC Workgroup, or you can find the link or access the recording afterwards . The , and it includes all the key information from DevCon, link to 10 community publication from April, detail on the Sponsorship Program and other updates. If you dont receive the monthly newsletter, . Are you running a network study and seeking collaboration or data partners? Our May 24 community call will be focused on Open Studies, and we are looking for presenters. If you would like to join this call, please contact Craig Sachson at . Want to help provide the foundation for future advance in OHDSI global research, and receive some benefit for your company in return? Check out , which includes from George Hripcsak.Openings Dani Prieto-Alhambra and his team at Oxford are recruiting a Database Programmer to join the team. This position will contribute to the standardization and curation of large real world data from the UK and collaborate with the OHDSI, EHDEN and OPTIMA Oncology teams. More information and the application link . The application deadline is May 23, 2022. Peter Reinbeek and the Erasmus Medical Center team shared an opening for an R Programmer in Health Data Science. This position will be responsible for designing, developing, documenting, and maintaining R code that will be executed against health data that is standardized to the OMOP Common Data Model. More information and the application link . As mentioned by Sally Baxter and Kerry Goetz during a recent community call, the National Eye Institute is looking for a DATA Scholar to develop a strategy and lead community consensus building to improve ocular health care through data standardization. Among other responsibilities, this person will build on community expertise of the OMOP CDM to advance standard representation of ocular concepts. . Cynthia Sung shared a recent summer internship opportunity in the Bill & Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute. One internship of potential interest to the community is seeking a candidate in the area of computational biology, computer science or bioengineering major who is proficient in coding in SQL and R or Python to transform Tuberculosis clinical trial data into the OMOP CDM. . Daniel Smith shared a recent opening at Emory University in Atlanta for an Informatics Analyst; this position will provide OMOP support for Winship Data and Winship Discovery projects. You can .2022 OHDSI Symposium Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | 2022 OHDSI European Symposium The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Slides | Video Presentation The April 26 Community Call, focused on the state of the OHDSI open-source community, and it included a recap on , held April 22. We also heard about a new opportunity in open-source development that wa announced during the State of the Community presentation (more on this below).We heard from the following leader in our open-source community:Lee Evans (Owner LTS Computing LLC) Martijn Schuemie (Research Fellow, Epidemiology Analytics Janssen Research and Development) Paul Nagy (Associate Professor Johns Hopkins School of Medicine) Adam Black (Data Sciences Odysseus Data Services)Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Yilu Fang,Betina Idnay,Yingcheng Sun,Hao Liu,Zhehuan Chen, Karen Marder,Hua Xu,Rebecca Schnall,and Chunhua Weng on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Katie Bradwell, Jacob Wooldridge, Benjamin Amor, Tellen Bennett, Adit Anand, Carolyn Bremer, Yun Jae Yoo, Zhenglong Qian, Steven Johnson, Emily Pfaff, Andrew Girvin, Amin Manna, Emily Niehaus, Stephanie Hong, Xiaohan Tanner Zhang, Richard Zhu, Mark Bissell, Nabeel Qureshi, Joel Saltz, Melissa Haendel, Christopher Chute, Harold Lehmann, and Richard Moffitt (on behalf of the N3C Consortium) on the publication of in JAMIA. Congratulations to the team of Kristina Bardenheuer, Michel Van Speybroeck, Clare Hague, Enkeleida Nikai, and Martin Price on the publication of in the European Journal of Haematology. OHDSI DevCon 2022 wa a success last Friday, with more than 100 people joining for a series of workshops, talk and an impressive final panel discussion. All the talk will be loaded to the , but both the State of the Community presentation by Adam Black and Paul Nagy, a well a the Keynote Address by Martijn Schuemie, are currently on the page. A big announcement from DevCon wa the formation of the Khieron Contributor Cohort, which will help onboard and mentor open-source developer in the community. If you are interested in joining the effort, . Want to help provide the foundation for future advance in OHDSI global research, and receive some benefit for your company in return? Check out , which includes from George Hripcsak. The most recent APAC Community Call featured APAC Studies quarterly updates. You can access the recording afterwards, . Are you running a network study and seeking collaboration or data partners? Our May 24 community call will be focused on Open Studies, and we are looking for presenters. If you would like to join this call, please contact Craig Sachson at . Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Openings Peter Reinbeek and the Erasmus Medical Center team shared an opening for an R Programmer in Health Data Science. This position will be responsible for designing, developing, documenting, and maintaining R code that will be executed against health data that is standardized to the OMOP Common Data Model. More information and the application link . The application deadline is this Wednesday, April 27. Dani Prieto-Alhambra and his team at Oxford are recruiting a Database Programmer to join the team. This position will contribute to the standardization and curation of large real world data from the UK and collaborate with the OHDSI, EHDEN and OPTIMA Oncology teams. More information and the application link . The application deadline is May 23, 2022. As mentioned by Sally Baxter and Kerry Goetz on last week community call, the National Eye Institute is looking for a DATA Scholar to develop a strategy and lead community consensus building to improve ocular health care through data standardization. Among other responsibilities, this person will build on community expertise of the OMOP CDM to advance standard representation of ocular concepts. .SlidesVideo Presentation The April 19 OHDSI Community Call featured a new set of workgroup updates, including an introduction of a brand new workgroup (Eye Care and Vision Research): Eye Care and Vision Research (Sally Baxter, Assistant Professor, Division Chief for Ophthalmology Informatics and Data Science, UC San Diego) FHIR and OMOP (Christian Reich, Vice President, RWE Systems IQVIA) Oncology (Asieh Golozar, VP, Global Head of Data Science Odysseus Data Services) Steering Group (Jody-Ann McLeggon Program Manager, Columbia University)Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Henrik John, Jan Kors, Jenna Reps, Patrick Ryan, and Peter Rijnbeek on the publication of in the International Journal of Medical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Yilu Fang, Betina Idnay, Yingcheng Sun, Hao Liu, Zhehuan Chen, Karen Marder, Hua Xu, Rebecca Schnall, and Chunhua Weng on the publication of in JAMIA. Curious about the new OHDSI Sponsorship program that wa announced last week, and how you can help support the community global research journey? Check out , which includes from George Hripcsak. The next APAC Community Call will be held Thursday, April 21 (Wednesday night in the Western Hemisphere) and will provide APAC Studies quarterly updates. You can get the link for the call, or access the recording afterwards, . Are you running a network study and seeking collaboration or data partners? Our May 24 community call will be focused on Open Studies, and we are looking for presenters. If you would like to join this call, please contact Craig Sachson at . The Open-Source Community is hosting (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul Nagy and Adam Black on behalf of the Open-Source Community Workgroup, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. . Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Slides | | | | VideosEye Care & Vision Research (Sally Baxter and Kerry Goetz)FHIR & OMOP (Christian Reich)Oncology (Asieh Golozar)Steering Group (Jody-Ann McLeggon) George Hripcsak, Chair and Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor of Biomedical Informatics at Columbia University, discussed the many way Columbia DBMI support OHDSI, and he share why it will be important to support the coordinating center in the future, a well a what benefit can come from your support.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Berta Ravents, Andrea Pistillo, Carlen Reyes, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Maria Aragn, Anna Berenguera, Constanza Jacques-Avi, Laura Medina-Perucha, Edward Burn, and Talita Duarte-Salles on the publication of in BMJ Open. Congratulations to the team of Tae-Hoon Kim, SiHyeong Noh, Youe Ree Kim, ChungSub Lee, Ji Eon Kim, Chang-Won Jeong, and Kwon-Ha Yoon on the publication of in the International Journal of Medical Informatics. Based on George Hripcsaks presentation, OHDSI ha created both and page on the website. Please check them out and see how you can support OHDSIs growth while receiving several benefit for your organization. The Open-Source Community is hosting (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul Nagy and Adam Black on behalf of the Open-Source Community Workgroup, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. . Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Slides |Video Patrick Ryan led the OHDSI community in a game of Name That Result (a distant relative of the old Name That Tune game show) where eight contestant were able to showcase all the way they could get from data to evidence using the OMOP CDM and OHDSI tools. This one wa decided on the final question!Thank you to Michael Cook, Stephanie Hong, Kristin Kostka, Martin Lavallee, Filip Malkovic, Maxim Moinat, Jose Posada, and Katherine Simon for their insight and spirited competition in this game!Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Chongliang Luo, Md Nazmul Islam, Natalie Sheils, John Buresh, Jenna Reps, Martijn Schuemie, Patrick Ryan, Mackenzie Edmondson, Rui Duan, Jiayi Tong, Arielle Marks-Anglin, Jiang Bian, Zhaoyi Chen, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Thomas Falconer, Chungsoo Kim, Rae Woong Park, Stephen Pfohl, Nigam Shah, Andrew Williams, Hua Xu, Yujia Zhou, Ebbing Lautenbach, Jalpa Doshi, Rachel Werner, David Asch, and Yong Chen on the publication of in Nature Communications. Congratulations to the team of Seok Kim, Ji-In Bang, Dachung Boo, Borham Kim, In Young Choi, SooJeong Ko, Ie Ryung Yoo, Kwangsoo Kim, Junmo Kim, YoungHwan Joo, Hyun Gee Ryoo, Jin Chul Paeng, Jung Mi Park, Woncheol Jang, Byungwon Kim, Yangha Chung, Dongyoon Yang, Sooyoung Yoo, and Ho-Young Lee on the publication of in European Journal of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging. Both the presentation and slide from the recent community call session on Reproducibility . This session wa led by Anna Ostropolets, Martijn Schemie and Asieh Golozar, and focused on the OHDSI2021 Reproducibility Challenge, how to design reproducible studies, and the Reproducibility Service at the Roux Institute. The is now available, and it includes report on the CDM Workshop, DevCon, and the OHDSI2022 Tutorial, a well a other community updates, link to publication and presentations, and plenty more. If you arent already subscribing to the newsletter, . The Open-Source Community is hosting (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul Nagy and Adam Black on behalf of the Open-Source Community Workgroup, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. . Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021.Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .SlidesVideo The March 29 OHDSI Community Call focused on reproducibility, and three leader in the community shared presentation on this topic. The 2021 OHDSI Reproducibility Challenge (Anna Ostropolets) Developing Reproducible Studies (Martijn Schuemie) The OHDSI Reproducibility Service (Asieh Golozar) Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Yuan Lu, Mui Van Zandt, Yun Liu, Jing Li, Xialin Wang, Yong Chen, Zhengfeng Chen, Jaehyeong Cho, Sreemanee Raaj Dorajoo, Mengling Feng, Min-Huei Hsu, Jason C. Hsu, Usman Iqbal, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Yu-Chuan Li, Siaw-Teng Liaw, Hong-Seok Lim, Kee Yuan Ngiam, Phung-Anh Nguyen, Rae Woong Park, Nicole Pratt, Christian Reich, Sang Youl Rhee, Selva Muthu Kumaran Sathappan, Seo Jeong Shin, Hui Xing Tan, Seng Chan You, Xin Zhang, Harlan M. Krumholz, Marc A. Suchard, and Hua Xu on the publication of in JAMA Network Open. This is an especially exciting paper, a it is the first to come out of the OHDSI Asia-Pacific (APAC) Workgroup. The APAC team lead a bi-weekly community call, and each is recorded. Last week session included a presentation from Christian Reich about the FHIR-OMOP partnership. You can see that recording and get both the link and theme for upcoming call . Congratulations to both Aki Nishimura and Marc Suchard on the publication of in the Journal of the American Statistical Association. Registration ha opened for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center. The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while a full-day tutorial (An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence) will be held Saturday, Oct. 15. There will be several workgroup activity between Oct. 15-16 a well. Here are several important link for #OHDSI2021. Full Symposium: | | Oct. 14 Main Conference: | | Oct. 15 Tutorial: | The Open-Source Community is hosting (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul Nagy and Adam Black on behalf of the Open-Source Community Workgroup, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. The full agenda ha been added. . The recent presentation on The OHDSI Vocabulary Journey from Michael Kallfelz, Christian Reich and Patrick Ryan, including both the video and slide from the community call, a well a the introduction from the Vocabulary chapter in the Book of OHDSI, . The OMOP CDM Workshop that wa held earlier this month ha been put together into a single video tutorial, . This page also ha all the slide from the workshop, a well a the CDM introductory text from the Book of OHDSI. The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . Slides | | | Video Presentations Reproducibility Challenge (Anna Ostropolets) Designing Reproducible Studies (Martijn Schuemie) The OHDSI Reproducibility Service (Asieh Golozar) The March 22 OHDSI Community Call provided an in-depth look at the OHDSI vocabulary, from how it is developed, to how it can be utilized, and where it should grow from here. Three leader from the vocabulary workgroup joined to present a trio of topic for this session (see below). A peek into the OHDSI vocabulary engine room (Michael Kallfelz) Fun thing you can learn with the OHDSI standardized vocabulary (Patrick Ryan) Time for reflection Where are we? Where should we be? (Christian Reich)Community Updates Congratulations to the team of JungHyun Byun, Dong Yun Lee, Chang-Won Jeong, Yerim Kim, Hak Young Rhee, Ki Won Moon, Jeongwon Heo, Yoonki Hong, Woo Jin Kim, Seung-Joo Nam, Hoon Sung Choi, Ji In Park, In Kook Chun, So Hyeon Bak, Kyoungyul Lee, Gi Hwan Byeon, Kyoung Lae Kim, Jeong-Ah Kim, Young Joo Park, Jeong Hyun Kim, Eun ju Lee, Sang-Ah Lee, Sung Ok Kwon, Sang-Won Park, Payam Hosseinzadeh Kasani, Jung-Kyeom Kim, Yeshin Kim, Seongheon Kim and Jae-Won Jang on the publication of in Scientific Reports. Congratulations to the team of Kristin Kostka, Talita Duarte-Salles, Albert Prats-Uribe, Anthony G Sena, Andrea Pistillo, Sara Khalid, Lana YH Lai, Asieh Golozar, Thamir M Alshammari, Dalia M Dawoud, Fredrik Nyberg, Adam B Wilcox, Alan Andryc, Andrew Williams, Anna Ostropolets, Carlos Areia, Chi Young Jung, Christopher A Harle, Christian G Reich, Clair Blacketer, Daniel R Morales, David A Dorr, Edward Burn, Elena Roel, Eng Hooi Tan, Evan Minty, Frank DeFalco, Gabriel de Maeztu, Gigi Lipori, Hiba Alghoul, Hong Zhu, Jason A Thomas, Jiang Bian, Jimyung Park, Jordi Martnez Roldn, Jose D Posada, Juan M Banda, Juan P Horcajada, Julianna Kohler, Karishma Shah, Karthik Natarajan, Kristine E Lynch, Li Liu, Lisa M Schilling, Martina Recalde, Matthew Spotnitz, Mengchun Gong, Michael E Matheny, Neus Valveny, Nicole G Weiskopf, Nigam Shah, Osaid Alser, Paula Casajust, Rae Woong Park, Robert Schuff, Sarah Seager, Scott L DuVall, Seng Chan You, Seokyoung Song, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Stephen Fortin, Tanja Magoc, Thomas Falconer, Vignesh Subbian, Vojtech Huser, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, William Carter, Yin Guan, Yankuic Galvan, Xing He, Peter R Rijnbeek, George Hripcsak, Patrick B Ryan, Marc A Suchard, and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on the publication of in Clinical Epidemiology. We are thrilled to announce that registration for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium, which will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center, is now open!The main conference will be held Friday, Oct. 14, whilewill be held Saturday, Oct. 15. Other community activities, mainly focused on OHDSI workgroups, will be held both Oct. 15 and Oct. 16. The OHDSI2022 homepage ha more information, a well a registration link to both the conference and the tutorial (these are separate event and each requires it own registration), information on, hotel room blocks, and plenty more.Direct registration is available for bothand. Please continue to check our symposium homepage and our social platforms, and join the weekly OHDSI community calls, for more information. The Open-Source Community is hosting the first OHDSI Dev Con on April 12 (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul Nagy and Adam Black on behalf of the Open-Source Community Workgroup, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. . The OMOP CDM Workshop that wa held over the last two OHDSI Community Calls ha been put together into a single video tutorial, . This page also ha all the slide from the workshop, a well a the CDM introductory text from the Book of OHDSI. The next APAC Community Call will be held this Wednesday/Thursday based on your time zone. Christian Reich will present on the OMOP/FHIR collaboration during this call. You can access these call . The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Slides | Community UpdatesVideo Presentation Clair Blacketer and member of the CDM Workgroup put together the second of a two-part CDM Workshop session during the March 15 OHDSI Community Call. Following an introduction by Clair, there were specific talk on the following topics: Vocabulary Mapping and Usagi (Melanie Philofsky) Data Quality (Clair Blacketer) ACHILLES (Anthony Molinaro) Putting It All Together (Frank DeFalco)Part 1 of this workshop wa held during the March 8 Community Call; you can watch that video here: https://youtu.be/y7CXONEMLoI.Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Matthew Spotnitz, Anna Ostropolets, Victor G. Castanob, Karthik Natarajan, Genna Waldman, Michael Argenziano, Ruth Ottman, George Hripcsak, Hyunmi Choi, and Brett Youngerman for the publication of recently in Epilepsy & Behavior. The 2022 OHDSI Symposium will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center in Bethesda, Md. The main symposium will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while the next two weekend will include community activities. More information about the weekend, including registration and the collaborator showcase, will be shared when available. The Open-Source Community is hosting the first OHDSI Dev Con on April 12 (8 am 12 pm ET) a a way of accepting and mentoring new contributor to our environment. Organized by Paul Nagy and Adam Black on behalf of the Open-Source Community Workgroup, the event will include multiple workshops, talk and a panel discussion to both welcome and engage both current and future developer within OHDSI. . Phenotype Phebruary may have ended, but the conversation still continue in the OHDSI forums. All of the phun phacts that were shared during our community call , so you can learn about all 29 phenotype discussed during the month. All daily thread can be found . Our colleague within EHDEN are opening their fourth and final call for SMEs to apply for training and certification on converting health data from various format to the OMOP common data model. Currently, EHDEN ha 47 SMEs across 19 European nation working on the EHDEN data network, which includes 140 data partner across 16 countries. You can see the fill list of , a well the . Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared that his team at Oxford is accepting application for an IT System Manager and Database Administrator. The deadline for application is April 11, 2022. For more registration and to apply, please . The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Slides | VideoCDM Workshop (Clair Blacketer, Melanie Philofsky, Anthony Molinaro and Frank DeFalco) The March 8 OHDSI community call featured Part 1 of our two-week OMOP CDM Workshop. We were excited to have four representative from our Common Data Model Workgroup lead this session: Clair Blacketer, Associate Director, Janssen Research & Development Frank DeFalco, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research & Development Kristin Kostka, Director of the OHDSI Center, Roux Institute, Northeastern University Maxim Moinat, Data Engineer/Software Developer, The HyvePrior to the CDM Workshop, Paul Nagy presented the newly developed Engine of Impact Project (EOI), a dashboard that allows for regular monitoring of the health and progress of the OHDSI community. Videos/slides for both the CDM Workshop and EOI Project are below.Community Updates The 2022 OHDSI Symposium will be held Oct. 14-16 at the Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center in Bethesda, Md. The main symposium will be held Friday, Oct. 14, while the next two weekend will include community activities. More information about the weekend, including registration and the collaborator showcase, will be shared when available. The . This edition includes a full review of Phenotype Phebruary, a look at the DARWIN EU announcement by the European Medicines Agency, publication and presentations, and much more. If you dont get The Journey in your email, . 2021 OHDSI Titan Award winner . Learn more about Maxims background, his work with open-source tools, EHDEN, the upcoming DARWIN EU initiative, and much more. The next CBER BEST Seminar will be held Wednesday, April 27, at 11 am ET. Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished Professor, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) will present his work on Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 Monitoring. . If you missed Nicole Pratts CBER BEST Seminar on Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance for Vaccines, . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please .Slides | | VideosCDM Workshop (Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco, Kristin Kostka, Maxim Moinat)Engine of Impact Project (Paul Nagy) The March 1 OHDSI community call included final reflection on Phenotype Phebruary, and then hosted breakout discussion on what is happening around the three main OHDSI focus of characterization, estimation and prediction, and how do we a a community collaborate to accomplish our 2022 OKRs. Patrick Ryan will led the final update on Phenotype Phebruary, which you can join in the daily conversation or Anthony Sena and Aniek Markus moderated aconversation in work around Characterization Marc Suchard moderated aconversation in work around Estimation Jenna Reps and Ross Williamsmoderated a conversation in work around Prediction Community Updates As announced at our last community call, the 2022 OHDSI U.S. Symposium will be held Oct. 14-16, with the main symposium set for Oct. 14. We will have more information on the event in the coming weeks, but please save those date for #OHDSI2022. Phenotype Phebruary completed it final week, and it ha been amazing to watch the activity ongoing on so many thread discussing different phenotype development & evaluation. Each daily post is linked on this page on OHDSI.org: . You can find each phenotype topic and post from the last week below; please check them out and continue the conversations. Thank you to Asieh Golozar, Rupa Makadia, Jill Hardin, Erica Voss, Tiffany Callahan, Juan Banda, Anna Ostropolets, Claudia Pulgarin, Marcela Rivera, and David Vizcaya for leading these discussion Feb. 21 Feb. 22 Feb. 23 Feb. 24 Feb. 25 Feb. 26 Feb. 27 Feb. 28 Bonus Congratulations to the team of Edward Burn, Xintong Li, Kristin Kostka, Henry Morgan Stewart, Christian Reich, Sarah Seager, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Mara Aragn, Carlen Reyes, Eugenia Martinez-Hernandez, Edelmira Marti, Antonella Delmestri, Katia Verhamme, Peter Rijnbeek, Scott Horban, Daniel Morales, and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on the recent publication of in Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety. Congratulations to the team of Emily Pfaff, Melissa Haendel, Kristin Kostka, Adam Lee, Emily Niehaus, Matvey Palchuk, Kellie Walters, and Christopher Chute on the recent publication of in the Journal of Clinical and Translational Science. Clair Blacketer led Part 2 of a CDM Workshop for the Asia-Pacific (APAC) community a part of the most recent APAC Community Call (). Clair will lead a two-part workshop on the global community call over the next two weeks. Curious about the Objectives & Key Results (OKRs) set by our various workgroups. These were presented at a recent meeting between workgroup leads, and . If you want to join any of our workgroups, . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . The #OHDSISocialShowcase wrap up this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks! Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Slides | | Videos Phenotype Phebruary Final Report (Patrick Ryan) Characterization Discussion (moderated by Aniek Markus and Anthony Sena) Estimation Discussion (moderated by Marc Suchard) Prediction Discussion (moderated by Jenna Reps and Ross Williams) The Feb. 22 OHDSI community call featured a trio of presentations: Anthony Sena will discus the resumption of the ATLAS workgroup, and present it objective and key result (OKRs) for the upcoming year Paul Nagy will introduce the newly developed Medical Imaging workgroup and discus it intentions, who should collaborate, it meeting cadence and 2022 OKRs Patrick Ryan provided the second update onPhenotype Phebruary, which you can join in the daily conversation or Community Updates Phenotype Phebruary is heading into the final week, and we currently have 20 interactive forum thread ongoing discussing different phenotype development & evaluation. Each daily post will be linked on this page on OHDSI.org: . You can find each phenotype topic and post from the last week below; please check them out and continue the conversations. Thank you to Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Adam Black and Evan Minty for leading these discussionsFeb. 14 ()Feb. 15 Feb. 16 Feb. 17 Feb. 18 Feb. 19 Feb. 20 Feb. 21 The next CBER Best Seminar will be provided by a veteran collaborator within the OHDSI community. Nicole Pratt (Professor, University of South Australia) will present on Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance For Vaccines at 11 am ET this Wednesday, Feb. 23. This seminar is free and open to the public; . The next Asia-Pacific (APAC) Community Call will be held Wednesday, March 23 at 10 pm ET. Clair Blacketer will provide part 2 of the first CDM Workshop of 2022. If you missed the first part, you can . Curious about the Objectives & Key Results (OKRs) set by our various workgroups? These were presented at a recent meeting between workgroup leads, and . If you want to join any of our workgroups, . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . Our collaborator at Janssen Research & Development recently posted a new position for Manager, Observational Health Data Analytics. You can find . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Slides | | | Video PresentationsATLAS WG (Anthony Sena)Medical Imaging WG (Paul Nagy)Phenotype Phebruary (Patrick Ryan) The Feb. 8 OHDSI community call featured a trio of presentations: Clair Blacketer shared a history of the OMOP Common Data Model and the 2022 OKRs, which include a series of CDM workshops, during the Common Data Model Workgroup presentation Clair Blacketer also presented the annual update and 2022 OKRs for the Data Quality Workgroup Patrick Ryan provided the second update onPhenotype Phebruary, which you can join in the daily conversation or Community Updates Congratulations to Peter Rijnbeek and all of our collaborator at the Erasmus University Medical Center for the Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU). As noted in , DARWIN EU will be able to leverage the extensive work done within the European Health Data and Evidence Network (EHDEN) project funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), and the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) community. Phenotype Phebruary ha begun, and we have six interactive forum thread ongoing discussing different phenotype development & evaluation. Each daily post will be linked on this page on OHDSI.org: . You can find each phenotype topic and post from the last week below; please check them out and continue the conversations. Thank you to Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Joel Swerdel, Allan Wu and Patrick Ryan for leading these discussions.Feb 7 Feb 8 Feb 9 Feb 10 Feb 11 Feb 12 Feb 13 Feb 14 The next CBER Best Seminar will be provided by a veteran collaborator within the OHDSI community. Nicole Pratt (Professor, University of South Australia) will present on Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance For Vaccines at 11 am ET on Wednesday, Feb. 23. This seminar is free and open to the public; . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Slides | | | Video PresentationsCDM Workgroup Update (Clair Blacketer)Data Quality Workgroup Update (Clair Blacketer)Phenotype Phebruary Report #2 (Patrick Ryan) The Feb. 8 OHDSI community call featured a trio of presentations: Melanie Philofsky shared an update and the 2022 OKRs (Objectives & Key Results) for the Healthcare Systems Special Interest Group (formerly the EHR Workgroup) Adam Black discussed the new Open-Source Community Workgroup and it 2022 OKRs Patrick Ryan provided the first update on Phenotype Phebruary, including lesson learned along the way, and highlighted how the community can continue to develop and evaluate phenotype throughout the month. You you can join in the daily conversation Community Updates Phenotype Phebruary ha begun, and we have six interactive forum thread ongoing discussing different phenotype development & evaluation. Each daily post will be linked on this page on OHDSI.org: . You can find each phenotype topic and post from the last week below; please check them out and continue the conversations.Feb. 1Feb. 2Feb. 3Feb. 4Feb. 5Feb. 6Feb. 7 The February 2022 edition of . If you dont the newsletter in your email, . What will you find in the latest edition of The Journey?Community UpdatesExtracting OHDSI Concepts from Clinical Narratives for COVID PresentationOHDSI Goals for 2022Recent PublicationsMORE! Longtime OHDSI collaborator Jon Duke will lead a discussion on saying goodbye to manual registry with the creation of interoperable EHR based clinical registry during the next Grand Rounds at Johns Hopkins, led by Paul Nagy. This leverage the forefront of the OHDSI and FHIR community committed to open standard and open science. This free session take place Thursday at 12 pm ET, and . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, will be held June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Slides | | | Video PresentationsHealthcare Systems Special Interest Group Update (Melanie Philofsky)Open Source Community Workgroup Introduction Announcement (Adam Black)Phenotype Phebruary Report #1 (Patrick Ryan) Patrick Ryan introduced a community-wide activity around developing and evaluating at least 28 phenotype across the 28 day of February. This presentation includes a discussion on the importance of phenotypes, a closer look at OHDSI tool that can be used in developing and evaluating them, a plan for executing this initiative across the community, and a jump into the Day 1 phenotype: Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. Community Updates Congratulations to the team of Ross D. Williams, Aniek F. Markus, Cynthia Yang, Talita Duarte-Salles, Scott L. DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Chungsoo Kim, Yeunsook Rho, Andrew E. Williams, Amanda Alberga Machado, Min Ho An, Mara Aragn, Carlos Areia, Edward Burn, Young Hwa Choi, Iannis Drakos, Maria Tereza Fernandes Abraho, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, George Hripcsak, Benjamin Skov Kaas-Hansen, Prasanna L. Kandukuri, Jan A. Kors, Kristin Kostka, Siaw-Teng Liaw, Kristine E. Lynch, Gerardo Machnicki, Michael E. Matheny, Daniel Morales, Fredrik Nyberg, Rae Woong Park, Albert Prats-Uribe, Nicole Pratt, Gowtham Rao, Christian G. Reich, Marcela Rivera, Tom Seinen, Azza Shoaibi, Matthew E. Spotnitz, Ewout W. Steyerberg, Marc A. Suchard, Seng Chan You, Lin Zhang, Lili Zhou, Patrick B. Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Jenna M. Reps and Peter R. Rijnbeek on the publication of in BMC Medical Research Methodology. Congratulations to the team of Seung-Hwa Lee, Jungchan Park, Rae Woong Park, Seo Jeong Shin, Jinseob Kim, Ji Dong Sung, Dae Jung Kim, and Kwangmo Yang on the publication of in Diagnostics. The most recent Asia-Pacific (APAC) Community Call wa held last week, and it featured a CDM Workshop led by Clair Blacketer. This wa the first of several planned CDM Workshops for 2022, and . You can also find a written Q&A from the workshop . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, ha been moved to the new date of June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks! Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Slides | Video During our Jan. 18 community call, Dr. Hongfang Liu (Mayo Clinic) and Dr. Christopher Chute (Johns Hopkins University) led a session on Extracting OHDSI Concepts from Clinical Narratives for COVID. Following the presentation (approximately 33 minutes), there is a Q&A session.Community Updates Congratulations to co-authors ChulHyoung Park, Seng Chan You, Hokyun Jeon, Chang Won Jeong, Jin Wook Choi, and Rae Woong Park on the publication of which wa recently published in the Yonsei Medical Journal. Congratulations to co-authors Xiangmin Ji, Guimei Cui, Chengzhen Xu, Jie Hou, Yunfei Zhang, and Yan Ren on the publication of recently in Frontiers in Pharmacology. Congratulations to the team of Seung-Hwa Lee, Jungchan Park, Rae Woong Park, Seo Jeong Shin, Jinseob Kim, Ji Dong Sung, Dae Jung Kim, and Kwangmo Yang on the publication of in Diagnostics. Our friend in the EHDEN Project recently highlighted it many success over the first three year of it five-year project, including harmonizing more than 500 million health record across 27 countries, developing 14 course (and counting) in the EHDEN Academy, and plenty more. . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, ha been moved to the new date of June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please . Our Janssen collaborator recently announced an opening for two summer intern for it . Learn more about this opportunity and apply using that link. The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues on Wednesday this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Slides | Video During our Jan. 18 community call, workgroups came together in GatherTown to discus Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) to set for 2022. These OKRs will be evaluated quarterly at both the global community level, a well a within the individual workgroups, to measure the success our community is having, and where we need to put greater attention moving forward.That session wa not recorded; it followed our weekly community updates, which are available below.Community Updates Congratulations to co-authors Daniel Morales, Anna Ostropolets, Lana Lai, Anthony Sena, Scott Duvall, Marc Suchard, Katia Verhamme,Peter Rjinbeek, Jose Posada, Waheed Ahmed, Thamer Alshammary, Heba Alghoul, Osaid Alser, Carlos Areia, Clair Blacketer, Ed Burn, Paula Casajust, Seng You, Dalia Dawoud, Asieh Golozar, Menchung Gong, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Evan Minty, Fredrik Nyberg, Albert Uribe, Martina Recalde, Christian Reich, Martijn Scheumie, Karishma Shah, Nigam Shah, Lisa Schilling, David Vizcaya, Lin Zhang, George Hripcsak, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Talita Durate-Salles, and Kristin Kostka on the publication of which wa recently published in the Journal of Asthma. Congratulations to Seng Chan You and Harlan Krumholz, who recently published this commentary in Circulation: . The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, ha been moved to the new date of June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please visit . The , and it looked back at 12 highlight from the OHDSI community in 2021. If you arent receiving this newsletter each month, . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Patrick Ryan led the first OHDSI Community Call of 2022 with a presentation about what OHDSI can accomplish together this year. While the community listed and voted upon several objectives, Patrick discussed his hope to develop a system to generate evidence that characterizes disease and treatment utilization, estimate the effect of medical interventions, and predicts outcome of patient within a network of observational health databases.Other aspect of the discussion included a look at OHDSI workgroups and how they can continue moving forward, 2021 achievements, and more. Both video of the presentation and Patricks slide are available below.Community Updates Congratulations to co-authors Nicolas Paris, Antoine Lamer and Adrien Parrot on the study which wa published in JMIR Medical Informatics on Dec. 14. Congratulations to co-authors Sooin Choi,Soo Jeong Choi,Jin Kuk Kim,Ki Chang Nam, Suehyun Lee,Ju Han KimandYou Kyoung Lee on the study which wa published in Scientific Reports on Dec. 15. Congratulations to co-authors Anastasiya Nestsiarovich,Jenna Reps,Michael Matheny,Scott DuVall, Kristine Lynch,Maura Beaton,Xinzhuo Jiang,Matthew Spotnitz,Stephen Pfohl, Nigam Shah,Carmen Olga Torre, Christian Reich,Dong Yun Lee,Sang Joon Son,Seng Chan You,Rae Woong Park,Patrick Ryan&Christophe Lambert on the study which wa published in Translational Psychiatry on Dec. 20. Congratulations to co-authors Carlen Reyes,Andrea Pistillo,Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Martina Recalde,Elena Roel,Diana Puente,Anthony Sena,Clair Blacketer,Lana Lai,Thamir Alshammari,Waheed-UI-Rahman Ahmed,Osaid Alser,Heba Alghoul,Carlos Areia, Dalia Dawoud, Albert Prats-Uribe,Neus Valveny,Gabriel de Maeztu,Luisa Sorl Red,Jordi Martinez Roldan,Inmaculada Lopez Montesinos,Lisa M Schilling,Asieh Golozar,Christian Reich, Jose Posada,Nigam Shah,Seng Chan You,Kristine Lynch,Scott DuVall,Michael Matheny, Fredrik Nyberg, Anna Ostropolets,George Hripcsak,Peter Rijnbeek,Marc Suchard, Patrick Ryan,Kristin Kostka,and Talita Duarte-Salles on the study which wa published in BMJ Open on Dec. 22. Congratulations to co-authors Jenna Reps, Patrick Ryan, and Peter Rijnbeek on the study which wa published in BMJ Open on Dec. 24. The 2022 OHDSI European Symposium, which will be held at the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands, ha been moved to the new date of June 24-26. The main symposium will be June 24, and tutorial will be held June 25-26. For more information and the registration link, please visit . The , and it looked back at 12 highlight from the OHDSI community in 2021. If you arent receiving this newsletter each month, . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: OPENINGS Janssen R&D recently posted an position in it world-class epidemiology department. The Bouv College of Health Sciences and The Roux Institute at Northeastern University seek candidate . The successful candidate will have primary responsibility for working with the , focusing on education, research and community support of the global Open Source OHDSI initiative. For more information, please reach out to Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Assistant Professor, Department of Health Sciences, at Slides | Video 2024 powered by Top | | | 2021 OHDSI Community Calls Everybody is invited to the weekly OHDSI community call, which take place each Tuesday at 11 am ET. These call are meant to inform and engage our community through a variety of call formats, including community presentations, working group updates, breakout sessions, focus topics, newcomer-focused sessions, and more. The upcoming schedule is available to the right.Videos and slide from previous call will be posted below. Both and from community call prior to 2021 remain available. The OHDSI community came together one more time this year for a holiday-themed final call of 2021. We had a holiday movie guessing game based on an SQL statement run against the OMOP CDM. There wa a collaborative singing performance of Diagnostics Are Coming To Town. The community recognized each other for gift given in 2021, and then Peter Rijnbeek shared a fitting way to wrap up 2021!Happy holiday to everybody who helped build the OHDSI community in 2021!Updates Congratulations to the EHDEN Academy team on creating Course #14: Building confidence in real-world data: data quality reporting. Clair Blacketer serf a a guest lecturer for this course. The EHDEN Academy is free and ha had more than 1,800 registrants. Congratulations to the team of Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Andrea Pistillo, Anthony Sena, Albert Prats-Uribe, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, Heba Alghoul, Thamir Alshammari, Osaid Alser, Carlos Areia, Edward Burn, Paula Casajust, Dalia Dawoud, Scott DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Asieh Golozar, Mengchun Gong, Lana Yin Hui Lai, Jennifer Lane, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Paras Mehta, Daniel Morales, Karthik Natarjan, Fredrik Nyberg, Jose Posada, Christian Reich, Peter Rijnbeek, Lisa Schilling, Karishma Shah, Nigam Shah, Vignesh Subbian, Lin Zhang, Hong Zhu, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Kristin Kostka and Talita Duarte-Salles, whose publication of originally published in July in the International Journal of Obesity, wa the featured publication in the Journal of Endocrinology & Metabolism last week. Registration opened last week for the , which will be held March 11 on the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands. There will be tutorial held on the Steam Ship Rotterdam on both March 12-13. You can . This week APAC Community Call (Wednesday, 10 pm ET) will focus on two study selected at the APAC Symposium for the community to work on in 2022: Real world safety of treatment for multiple sclerosis (Nicole Pratt); and Quality assessment of CDM database across the OHDSI-AP network (Chungsoo Kim). The latest edition of The Journey Newsletter . This edition includes a look at the latest EUMAEUS publication, the recent open-source governance workshop, the APAC Symposium, and much more. If you arent receiving the newsletter each month, .OPENINGS The Bouv College of Health Sciences and The Roux Institute at Northeastern University seek candidate . The successful candidate will have primary responsibility for working with the , focusing on education, research and community support of the global Open Source OHDSI initiative. For more information, please reach out to Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Assistant Professor, Department of Health Sciences, at The Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford seek two Postdoctoral Data Scientists to join a Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group led by Professor Daniel Prieto-Alhambra. Full detail on this position, including all responsibilities, . The deadline is Dec. 17, 2021. The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Video Presentation Where did OHDSI succeed in 2021? Where did we fall short? What progress did both the global community and individual workgroups make on their 2021 objective and key results?Patrick Ryan delivered a wrap-up on OHDSI in 2021 during the Dec. 7 community call. Both the video and slide from his presentation are available below.Please join u Dec. 14 for a fun, holiday-themed final call of the year!Updates Congratulations to the team of Ross Williams, Jenna Reps, the OHDSI/EHDEN Knee Arthroplasty Group, Peter Rijnbeek, Patrick Ryan and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on the release of in Knee Surgery, Sports Traumatology, Arthroscopy. Congratulations to Peter Rijnbeek, who wa recently named Head of the Department of Medical Informatics at Erasmus MC. Registration opened last week for the , which will be held March 11 on the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands. There will be tutorial held on the Steam Ship Rotterdam on both March 12-13. You can . Last week APAC Community Call included two presentations: Characterization of non-communicable diseases, by Seng Chan You, and Comparison of mortality, morbidity & healthcare resource utilization between patient with and without a diagnosis of COVID-19, by Eric Wan. You can The latest edition of The Journey Newsletter . This edition includes a look at the latest EUMAEUS publication, the recent open-source governance workshop, the APAC Symposium, and much more. If you arent receiving the newsletter each month, .OPENINGS The Bouv College of Health Sciences and The Roux Institute at Northeastern University seek candidate . The successful candidate will have primary responsibility for working with the , focusing on education, research and community support of the global Open Source OHDSI initiative. For more information, please reach out to Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Assistant Professor, Department of Health Sciences, at The Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford seek two Postdoctoral Data Scientists to join a Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group led by Professor Daniel Prieto-Alhambra. Full detail on this position, including all responsibilities, . The deadline is Dec. 17, 2021. The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Slides | Video Presentation The OHDSI 2021 Global Symposium Best Community Contribution Award recipient shared their honored research during the Nov. 30 community call. Each of the winning showcase submissions, a voted on by the community, and presenter can be found below: Extending the OMOP CDM to store the output of natural language processing pipeline (Alberto Labarga) The concept of anchoring in observational study design and it influence (Anna Ostropolets) Gold or Lead? Adjudicating Differences between CDM Data and Chart Reviews (Kimberley Dickinson) Competing risk regression model in cohort study with the R package Cohort Method (Kelli Li) Detecting PTSD and self-harm among US Veterans using positive unlabeled Learning (Christophe Lambert)Updates Congratulations to the team of Xintong Li, Lana YH Lai, Anna Ostropolets, Faaizah Arshad, Eng Hooi Tan, Paula Casajust, Thamir M. Alshammari, Talita Duarte-Salles, Evan P. Minty, Carlos Areia, Nicole Pratt, Patrick B. Ryan, George Hripcsak, Marc A. Suchard, Martijn J. Schuemie and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on the publication of in Frontiers in Pharmacology. There wa an OHDSI press release on this study, . Congratulations to the team of Edward Burn, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Erica A Voss, Clair Blacketer, Maria Aragn, Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Andrea Pistillo, Berta Ravents, Carlen Reyes, Sebastiaan van Sandijk, Lars Halvorsen, Peter R Rijnbeek, Talita Duarte-Salles for the study , which wa recently posted on MedRxiv. Community feedback is welcomed. Registration ha opened for the , which will be held March 11 on the Steam Ship Rotterdam in The Netherlands. There will be tutorial held on the Steam Ship Rotterdam on both March 12-13. You can . The next edition of the CBER Best Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, Dec. 1, at 11 am. Heather Whitaker, a senior statistician at UK Health Security Agency (formerly Public Health England), will provide a presentation on Vaccine safety evaluation using the self-controlled case series method. . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Friday: Video PresentationsExtending the OMOP CDM to store the output of natural language processing pipeline (Alberto Labarga)The concept of anchoring in observational study design and it influence (Anna Ostropolets)Gold or Lead? Adjudicating Differences between CDM Data and Chart Reviews (Kimberley Dickinson)Competing risk regression model in cohort study with the R package Cohort Method (Kelli Li)Detecting PTSD and self-harm among US Veterans using positive unlabeled Learning (Christophe Lambert) Our community received a history lesson during the Nov. 23 OHDSI call. Leaders from the original Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) Project joined for a discussion on that effort, the lesson they learned during that time, how it eventually transitioned to the OHDSI community, and how we have grown to where we are today. We were thrilled to welcome a trio of leader from the original OMOP project:Marc Overhage Chief Medical Informatics Officer, Anthem, Inc.Judy Racoosin Deputy Director for Safety, Division of Hepatology and Nutrition, FDAPaul Stang Vice-President: Global Epidemiology, Johnson & JohnsonUpdates Congratulations to the team of Kristine Lynch, Jillian Shipherd, Elise Gatsby, Benjamin Viernes, Scott DuVall, and John Blosnich on the publication of in Annals of Epidemiology. Congratulations to Miguel Pedrera, Noelia Garcia, Paula Rubio, Juan Luis Cruz, Jos Luis Bernal, and Pablo Serrano on the publication of in the recent Studies in Health Technology and Informatics newsletter. Congratulations to Ines Reinecke, Michle Zoch, Markus Wilhelm, Martin Sedlmayr, and Franziska Bathelt on the publication of in the recent Studies in Health Technology and Informatics newsletter. Congratulations to Emanuele Girani, Matteo Gabetta, Anna Alloni, Morena Stuppia, Lucia Sacchi, and Nicola Barbarini on the publication of in the recent Studies in Health Technology and Informatics newsletter. Congratulations to Matteo Gabetta, Anna Alloni, Francesca Polce, Giordano Lanzola, Enea Parimbelli, and Nicola Barbarini on the publication of in the recent Studies in Health Technology and Informatics newsletter. Paul Nagy recently introduced an upcoming OHDSI Open-Source Governance Workshop, which will be held Nov. 29, 2021, between 9 am 1 pm ET. A calendar invite wa sent out last week; if you did not receive it, . You can and learn how all member of the community can benefit from joining this half-day workshop. The next edition of the CBER Best Seminar Series will be Wednesday, Dec. 1, at 11 am. Heather Whitaker, a senior statistician at UK Health Security Agency (formerly Public Health England), will provide a presentation on Vaccine safety evaluation using the self-controlled case series method. . The 2021 APAC Symposium, held last week, wa an engaging and informative day for both our Asia-Pacific and global communities. The morning session featured several talks, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. If you missed that session, or want to watch it again, it . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week, a we highlight all the global research presented at the OHDSI Symposium. Here is a look at the research being shared this week on Twitter and LinkedIn; please check them out and share with your own networks!Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Video Presentation: The History of OHDSI The Nov. 16 community call highlighted six OHDSI network study that are either ongoing or are close to starting. We heard about the exciting work happening within our global community, and what type of collaboration these study lead are seeking a they move forward. Presentations included: Asieh Golozar: Prognostic Significance of Liver Metastasis in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Leena Elhussein: Redefining Polypharmacy: A Longitudinal Study in Routinely Collected Data Nomie Elhadad: Health Equity Research Assessment (HERA) Characterization Jacob Zelko: Assessing Health Equity in Mental Healthcare Delivery Using a Federated Network Research Model Annika Jodicke and Kristin Kostka: Long COVID Phenotyping and Vaccine Effectiveness Methods Erica Voss: Adverse Events of Special Interest within COVID-19 SubjectsUpdates Congratulations to Yongseok Mun Seng Chan You, Da Yun Lee, Seok Kim, Yoo-Ri Chung, Kihwang Lee, Ji Hun Song, Young Gun Park, Young Hoon Park, Young-Jung Roh, Se Joon Woo, Kyu Hyung Park, Rae Woong Park, Sooyoung Yoo, Dong Jin Chang, Sang Jun Park for the publication of the study in the journal Epidemiology and Health over the weekend. Both Jamie Weaver and Kristin Kostka were quoted in a Sunday USA Today feature titled Jamie Weavers personal story of using OHDSI tool following his melanoma diagnosis, which he shared at the OHDSI2021 Global Symposium, is included in this feature. (subscription required to read) Last week, Paul Nagy introduced an upcoming OHDSI Open-Source Governance Workshop, which will be held Nov. 29, 2021, between 9 am 1 pm ET. You can and learn how all member of the community can benefit from joining this half-day workshop. The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held this Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). If you registered, you should have already received a calendar invite. More detail , and . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.Slides | | | VideosAsieh Golozar: Prognostic Significance of Liver Metastasis in Non-Small Cell Lung CancerLeena Elhussein: Redefining Polypharmacy: A Longitudinal Study in Routinely Collected DataNomie Elhadad: Health Equity Research Assessment (HERA) CharacterizationJacob Zelko: Assessing Health Equity in Mental Healthcare Delivery Using a Federated Network Research ModelAnnika Jodicke and Kristin Kostka: Long COVID Phenotyping and Vaccine Effectiveness Methodshttps://youtu.be/FRmRg_304WUErica Voss: Adverse Events of Special Interest within COVID-19 Subjects The Nov. 9 community call featured three demo to educate the community about tool to use for the adoption of our OHDSI data standards. Topics and presenter are available below: Introduction to CDM v5.4 (Clair Blacketer) OHDSI Vocabularies (Michael Kallfelz) ETL Inspection Report (Maxim Moinat)Updates Congratulations to Patricia Biedermann, Rose Ong, Alexander Davydov, Alexandra Orlova, Philip Solovyev, Hong Sun, Graham Wetherill, Monika Brand and Eva-Maria Didden for the publication of in BMC Medical Research Methodology. The Hyve recently published on how to make published observational research data more FAIR. The recipe describes the work done on making data on the website of the Covid-19 EHDEN/OHDSI studyathon, held in March 2020, more findable and interoperable. The , hosted by EHDEN, will conclude next Monday, Nov. 15, at 17:00 CET. Following the four open call to date, EHDEN currently ha 98 data partner from 23 different country which are mapping their data to the OMOP common data model. This includes several EHDEN project partner who have also mapped their data to the OMOP CDM for use in the federated network. Paul Nagy introduced the upcoming OHDSI Open-Source Governance Workshop, which will be held Monday, Nov. 29, from 9 am 1 pm. He discussed it goal () and how many different role of interest it would pertain to within the community. Look for a Teams meeting link coming in the near future. The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. More detail , and . The #OHDSISocialShowcase continues this week. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.SlidesVideosCDM v5.4 (Clair Blacketer)Getting Vocabularies Into My OMOP CDM (Michael Kallfelz)ETL Inspection Report (Maxim Moinat) The Nov. 2 Community Call featured breakout discussion on future collaboration opportunity within OHDSI. As our global community start to turn it attention towards 2022, we hope these breakout discussion will help shape different path for OHDSI to make a positive impact in the future. Thank you to these community leader for facilitating these discussions! Videos of all four breakout are posted below.Methods Research:Jenna Reps and Martijn SchuemieData Standards:Clair Blacketer and Maxim MoinatOpen-Source Development:Adam Black and Anthony SenaClinical Applications:Talita Duarte-Salles and Asieh GolozarUpdates Congratulations to Antoine Lamer, Osama Abou-Arab, Alexandre Bourgeois, Adrien Parrot, Benjamin Popoff, Jean-Baptiste Beuscart, Benot Tavernier, and Mouhamed Djahoum Moussa for the publication of in the Journal of Medical Internet Research. Congratulations to William Wood, Peter Marks, Robert Plovnick, Kathleen Hewitt, Donna Neuberg, Sam Walters, Brendan Dolan, Emily Tucker, Charles Abrams, Alexis Thompson, Kenneth Anderson, Paul Kluetz, Ann Farrell, Donna Rivera, Matthew Gertzog, and Gregory Pappas for the publication of in Blood Advances. Congratulations to Patrick Ryan, who wa inducted into the American College of Medical Informatics Fellows Class of 2021 during the ongoing AMIA Symposium in San Diego. provided by Marc Overhage and George Hripcsak. The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. More detail , and . The #OHDSISocialShowcase began recently. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.SlidesVideosMethods Research BreakoutData Standards BreakoutClinical Applications BreakoutOpen-Source Development Breakout Patrick Ryan led a Halloween-themed interactive demonstration of how you can use the OHDSI tool to quickly generate insight from your OMOP CDM.Updates Congratulations to the EHDEN Consortium on , and perform service in the ecosystem of the EHDEN federated data network. EHDEN now ha a total of 47 SMEs across 19 European nation to assist in real world evidence generation within the community. The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. More detail , and . The #OHDSISocialShowcase began recently. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.SlidesDemo: Using OHDSI Tools To Quickly Generate Insights From Your OMOP CDM LEGEND (Large-scale Evidence Generation and Evaluation across a Network of Databases) applies high-level analytics to perform observational research on hundred of million of patient record within OHDSIs international database network.LEGEND principle have been applied to studying the effect of treatment for depression, hypertension, and COVID-19, and are being applied to Type 2 diabetes. The clinical impact of LEGEND ha already been observed, with important evidence that promotes better health decision published in Lancet, JAMA Internal Medicine, and Hypertension.During the Oct. 19 OHDSI Community Call, we heard more about the LEGEND Initiative, it work around hypertension, and plan around Type 2 diabetes, from the following speakers: Anna Ostropolets RuiJun Ray Chen Yuan Lu Rohan Khera Aki Nishimura Fan Bu Marc SuchardMaterials and link shared during the presentation (video is below) | | Updates All recordings, material and resource from the two-day HL7 FHIR and OHDSI workshop . Five subgroup have been added: Data Model Harmonization, Digital Quality Measurement, Oncology, Registries and Applications, and Terminologies. . The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. More detail , and . The next CBER BEST Seminar Series presentation will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20, at 11 am ET. Nicola P. Klein, MD, PhD (Kaiser Permanente Division of Research) will discus her work on Exploring Vaccine Safety Datalink COVID vaccine rapid cycle analysis (RCA) methods. . The #OHDSISocialShowcase began recently. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.SlidesThe Legend Initiative | Video: The Legend Initiative The Oct. 12 OHDSI Community Call paid tribute to the 2021 Titan Award honorees. How did they enhance OHDSIs mission over the last year? What should the community know about their work?Besides recognizing the superb accomplishment of these eight community leaders, this meeting hopefully showed the type of global impact one person can make, and inspire others a our community move towards 2022!Our 2021 Titan Award honoree were:Maxim Moinat (Data Standards)Yong Chen (Methodological Research)Adam Black (Open-Source Development)Asieh Golozar (Clinical Applications)Erica Voss (Community Collaboration)Mui Van Zandt (Community Leadership)Faaizah Arshad (Community Support)Ross Williams (Community Support)Updates The recent LEGEND study, published in Hypertension, wa profiled recently in JAMA. Author Jennifer Abbasi wrote the article recently, which includes quote from lead author RuiJun Chen and senior author George Hripcsak. The LEGEND team is preparing to apply high-level analytics and it on hundred of million of patient record to study the effect of treatment on Type 2 diabetes (you will learn more about LEGEND during the Oct. 19 community call). The research protocol is . Community feedback is welcome. All recordings, material and resource from the two-day HL7 FHIR and OHDSI workshop . Five subgroup have been added: Data Model Harmonization, Digital Quality Measurement, Oncology, Registries and Applications, and Terminologies. . The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. More detail , and . The came out recently, and it includes all the detail of how to watch the 2021 Symposium, a well a the latest monthly podcast, information on the CDM v5.4, the Our Journey: Where the OHDSI Community Has Been, and Where Are We Going book, publication and presentation from September, and plenty more. The next CBER BEST Seminar Series presentation will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20, at 11 am ET. Nicola P. Klein, MD, PhD (Kaiser Permanente Division of Research) will discus her work on Exploring Vaccine Safety Datalink COVID vaccine rapid cycle analysis (RCA) methods. . The #OHDSISocialShowcase began recently. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.Video: Meet The Titans The Oct. 5 community call featured four new OHDSI workgroup updates: Clinical Trials (Mike Hamidi) Health Equity (Jake Gillberg) Phenotype Development & Evaluation (Gowtham Rao) Vaccine Vocabular y(Adam Black)Updates All video presentation and panel from the main two day of the OHDSI 2021 Global Symposium . More than 100 posters, demo and lightning talk from the Collaborator Showcase . Congratulations to Emily Pfaff, Andrew Girvin, Davera Gabriel, Kristin Kostka, Michele Morris, Matvey Palchuk, Harold Lehmann, Benjamin Amor, Mark Bissell, Katie Bradwell, Sigfried Gold, Stephanie Hong, Johanna Loomba, Amin Manna, Julie McMurry, Emily Niehaus, Nabeel Quresh, Anita Walden, Xiaohan Tanner Zhang, Richard Zhu, Richard Moffitt, Melissa Haendel, Christopher Chute, and the N3C Consortium on the publication of in JAMIA. The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. More detail , and . The just came out, and it includes all the detail of how to watch the 2021 Symposium, a well a the latest monthly podcast, information on the CDM v5.4, the Our Journey: Where the OHDSI Community Has Been, and Where Are We Going book, publication and presentation from September, and plenty more. The next CBER BEST Seminar Series presentation will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20, at 11 am ET. Nicola P. Klein, MD, PhD (Kaiser Permanente Division of Research) will discus her work on Exploring Vaccine Safety Datalink COVID vaccine rapid cycle analysis (RCA) methods. . The #OHDSISocialShowcase began recently. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community.Slides | | | | PresentationsClinical Trials (Mike Hamidi)Health Equity (Jake Gillberg)Phenotype Development and Evaluation (Gowtham Rao)Vaccine Vocabulary (Adam Black) The Sept. 28 Community Call introduced the community to the many workgroups available within OHDSI. Following community updates, we reopened Gathertown so collaborator could visit each workgroup and learn more about what ha been done, and what is currently being worked on. Updates All video presentation and panel from the main two day of the OHDSI 2021 Global Symposium . More than 100 posters, demo and lightning talk from the Collaborator Showcase . Congratulations to Yuan Peng, Azadeh Nassirian, Najia Ahmadi, Martin Sedlmayr, and Franziska Bathelt on the publication of in Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. CDM v5.4 is officially available. Clair Blacketer , a well a during the community call (5:43 mark of the video presentation below). We will plan to have a demo at a later community call. Registration is still open for a two-day HL7 FHIR/OMOP Workshop this Wednesday-Thursday. Concepts that will be explored during the workshop include how to build the community and engage participants, reviewing near-term challenge regarding mapping and other issues, and working to establish a collaboration framework for moving forward, including setup of specific subgroup to advance individual use cases. . The 2021 APAC Symposium will be held Nov. 18 (APAC time zone). There are several planned talk during the full-day event, including one focused on the FHIR/OHDSI collaboration, the APAC Chapter vision for 2022, the EHDEN consortium and state of the community talk for both the global community and the APAC community. You can . The #OHDSISocialShowcase began today. Over the next few months, research from the OHDSI2021 Collaborator Showcase will be profiled each weekday on both the and accounts. Please follow and share to highlight the breadth of research happening around our community. The next CBER BEST Seminar Series presentation will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20, at 11 am ET. The speaker is being finalized, so more information is coming, but please save the date for the next presentation. Video Presentations Community Updates (including CDM v5.4 discussion) The Sept. 21 Community Call welcomed newcomer to OHDSI following the 2021 symposium. Following a brief overview of the OHDSI community and it mission, there wa a tour off all the material available on OHDSI.org. Four community leader (Clair Blacketer, Paul Nagy, Faaizah Arshad and Dani Prieto-Alhambra) then discussed their role and what inspires them about the community.Updates All video presentation and panel from the main two day of the OHDSI 2021 Global Symposium . More than 100 posters, demo and lightning talk from the Collaborator Showcase . Congratulations to Sara Khalid, Cynthia Yang, Clair Blacketer, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Chungsoo Kim, Rae Woong Park, Jimyung Park, Martijn Schuemie, Anthony Sena, Marc Suchard, Seng ChanYou, Peter Rijnbeek, and Jenna Repson the publication of in Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine. Registration is open for a two-day HL7 FHIR/OMOP Workshop. Concepts that will be explored during the workshop include how to build the community and engage participants, reviewing near-term challenge regarding mapping and other issues, and working to establish a collaboration framework for moving forward, including setup of specific subgroup to advance individual use cases. Registration link . Paul Nagy provided a recent Grand Rounds presentation on the Johns Hopkins OHDSI community and the road to reproducible research on medical records. That presentation .Video PresentationsOHDSI Overview (Patrick Ryan)Tour of the OHDSI website (Craig Sachson)Meet the Community (Clair Blacketer, Paul Nagy, Faaizah Arshad, Dani Prieto-Alhambra) The Sept. 7 Community Call focused on the final logistics of the 2021 Global Symposium, including a look at the two plenary sessions.Updates We have a new homepage for the full #OHDSI2021 agenda, . Please share this with your respective networks, and . The symposium will be held virtually Sept. 12-15. Congratulations to Dani Prieto-Alhambra, who ha been elected a Academic Director for Europe/Africa for the 2021-2022 ISPE Board of Directors. Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared that the University of Oxford ha opening for 2 Senior Statistician/ Senior Data Scientists within his team. More detail and an application link are available here. The deadline for application is 12 pm local time on September 20, 2021. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, September 8, at 11 am. Robert Platt (McGill University) will present a talk on COVID-19 pharmacoepidemiology in Canada. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link .Video Presentation The August 24 Community Call had a theme of Back To School and shared some educational opportunity within the community. Among the topic discussed were: the recent CDM Hack-a-thon (Clair Blacketer) the recent APAC ETL tutorial (Mui Van Zandt) the Roux Institue, the Book of OHDSI, and the OHDSI forum (Kristin Kostka) the EHDEN Academy and OHDSI tutorial (Patrick Ryan)Updates We have a new homepage for the full #OHDSI2021 agenda, . Please share this with your respective networks, and . The symposium will be held virtually Sept. 12-15. The OHDSI and EHDEN community have been well-represented at #ICPE2021. Between our two networks, we have participated in at least three workshops, 12 oral presentation and nine posters. Congratulations to Dani Prieto-Alhambra, who ha been elected a Academic Director for Europe/Africa for the 2021-2022 ISPE Board of Directors. Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared that the University of Oxford ha opening for 2 Senior Statistician/ Senior Data Scientists within his team. More detail and an application link are available here. The deadline for application is 12 pm local time on September 20, 2021. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, September 8, at 11 am. Robert Platt (McGill University) will present a talk on COVID-19 pharmacoepidemiology in Canada. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The 2021 Titan Award nomination are open! The OHDSI Titan Awards serve to recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development effort and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. This is the fourth year for the OHDSI Titan Awards, and we ask member of the community to nominate individuals, team or institution who they want to be considered for this honor. ; the deadline is August 30 (5 pm ET).Video Presentation The August 17 Community Call focused on New Developments in OHDSI and it featured four presentations. Ajit Londhe (Advancements to ATLAS) Hongfang Liu (Innovations in NLP for OMOP CDM) Namki Hong (Improvement of Cohort Selection Performance by SNOMED CT for Rare Endocrine Diseases: RED-CDM Study) David Eichmann (The Meta-Information Architecture of the National COVID Cohort Collaborative Updates Congratulations to the team of Selva Muthu Kumaran Sathappan, Young Seok Jeon, Trung Kien Dang, Su Chi Lim, Yi-Ming Shao, E Shyong Tai, Mengling Feng for the recent publication of in Applied Clinical Informatics. The CDM Working Group will be holding a Hack-a-Thon on August 18-19. In preparation for the symposium, the team will be readying CDM v5.4 by writing both R code and documentation of the model. Everybody is welcome to join, regardless of skill level. If you plan to join the hack-a-thon, . It will begin Wednesday at 10 am ET . The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, September 8, at 11 am. Robert Platt (McGill University) will present a talk on COVID-19 pharmacoepidemiology in Canada. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The latest edition of The Journey, OHDSIs official newsletter, ha been posted. You can read the newsletter, which includes all update from July, . The 2021 Titan Award nomination are open! The OHDSI Titan Awards serve to recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development effort and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. This is the fourth year for the OHDSI Titan Awards, and we ask member of the community to nominate individuals, team or institution who they want to be considered for this honor. ; the deadline is August 30 (5 pm ET). Video Presentations Ajit Londhe (Advancements to ATLAS) Hongfang Liu (Innovations in NLP for OMOP CDM) Namki Hong (Improvement of Cohort Selection Performance by SNOMED CT for Rare Endocrine Diseases: RED-CDM Study) https://youtu.be/w1fd9vUsg David Eichmann (The Meta-Information Architecture of the National COVID Cohort Collaborative) The August 10 Community Call featured a preview of the 2021 OHDSI Global Symposium, which will be held virtually Sept. 12-15. The full presentation is below, but registration opened for the Sunday tutorial, Monday workshop, and the main symposium on Tuesday and Wednesday. Links and agenda are below:Sunday, September 12: Building Conceptsets TutorialPlease check out and note the limitation on registration so be sure to sign up soon!Monday, September 13: OHDSI Reproducibility Challenge WorkshopPlease check out our and note the limitation on registration for workshop collaborators; there is no registration limit for workshop observers.Tuesday, September 14: 8 am 9 am ET: State of the Community9 am 12 pm ET: Plenary session OHDSI Impact on Covid-19 pandemic1 pm 5 pm ET: Collaborator Showcase5 pm ET: NetworkinWednesday, September 15:3 am 7 am ET: Collaborator Showcase8 am 12 pm ET: Plenary Generating Reliable Evidence1 pm ET: NetworkingHelpful links: Updates The CDM Working Group will be holding a Hack-a-Thon on August 18-19. In preparation for the symposium, the team will be readying CDM v5.4 by writing both R code and documentation of the model. Everybody is welcome to join, regardless of skill level. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, September 8, at 11 am. Robert Platt (McGill University) will present a talk on COVID-19 pharmacoepidemiology in Canada. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The latest edition of The Journey, OHDSIs official newsletter, ha been posted. You can read the newsletter, which includes all update from July, . The 2021 Titan Award nomination are open! The OHDSI Titan Awards serve to recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development effort and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. This is the fourth year for the OHDSI Titan Awards, and we ask member of the community to nominate individuals, team or institution who they want to be considered for this honor. ; the deadline is August 30 (5 pm ET).Slides | Video Presentation The August 3 community call featured update on the exciting progress being made within the Asia-Pacific region. Leaders from our six APAC chapter shared presentation during the meeting: Roger Ward (Australia) Hua Xu (China) Tatsuo Hiramatsu (Japan) Mengling Mornin Feng (Singapore) Seng Chan You (South Korea) Jason Hsu (Taiwan)Updates Congratulations to the team of Clair Blacketer, Frank Defalco, Patrick Ryan, and Peter Rijnbeek on the publication of in Hypertension. Thank you to the Scientific Review Committee, who reviewed more than 110 collaborator showcase submission over the last month. Notifications of acceptance are being sent out early this week; if you did not hear anything, please reach out to . The 2021 Scientific Review Committee is comprised of Nsikak Akpakpan, Juan Banda, Maytal Bivas-Benita, Adrien Coulet, Jon Duke, Leanne Goldstein, Jill Hardin, Elisse Katzman, Kristin Kostka, Christophe Lambert, Rupa Makadia, Melanie Philofsky, Jose Posada, Hanieh Razzaghi, Patrick Ryan, Craig Sachson, Sarah Seager, Mui Van Zandt, Rohit Vashisht, Andrew Williams, Chen Yanover, and Seng Chan You. There will be a one-hour inaugural open HL7-OHDSI meeting on Wednesday, Aug. 4 at 10 am ET). This meeting goal is to review and update plan for the collaboration, and discus how member of the community can get involved. Speakers will include Ed Hammond, George Hripcsak, Wayne Kubick (HL7), Christian Reich (OHDSI), Floyd Eisenberg (HL7), and Jon Duke (OHDSI). You can . The CDM Working Group will be holding a Hack-a-Thon on August 18-19. In preparation for the symposium, the team will be readying CDM v5.4 by writing both R code and documentation of the model. Everybody is welcome to join, regardless of skill level. Nega Gebreyesus announced the formation of the Africa Chapter within the OHDSI community during last week community call. If you want to join this chapter (or any workgroup), . The 2021 Titan Award nomination are now open! The OHDSI Titan Awards serve to recognize those who have gone above and beyond to foster community engagement, lead research and development effort and make significant contribution towards OHDSIs mission. This is the fourth year for the OHDSI Titan Awards, and we ask member of the community to nominate individuals, team or institution who they want to be considered for this honor. ; the deadline is August 30 (5 pm ET).Video Presentation(updates by Roger Ward, Hua Xu, Tatsuo Hiramatsu, Mengling Mornin Feng, Seng Chan You, Jason Hsu) The July 27 OHDSI Community Call focused on visualization around Health Equity, and it also included a report from the HADES Unit-Test-A-Thon.This wa the second visualization challenge we have held during a community call, and we were happy to hear from Jake Gillberg, Joel Swerdel, Tony Sun, Jody-Ann McLeggon and Adam Black on this topic. You can still participate in this challenge by posting a visualization to the OHDSI Viz Challenge July2021 Health Equity channel on the main OHDSI team.Also, Hina Khan, Adam Black and Martijn Schuemie joined the community call to discus the HADES Unit-Test-A-Thon and it impact.Updates Congratulations to the team of RuiJun Chen, Marc Suchard, Harlan Krumholz, Martijn Schuemie, Steven Shea, Jon Duke, Nicole Pratt, Christian Reich, David Madigan, Seng Chan You, Patrick Ryan, and George Hripcsak on the publication of in Hypertension. Congratulations to Nicholas Giangreco and Nicholas Tatonetti on the publication of in BioData Mining. Congratulations to Jin Ge, Mark Pletcher, Jennifer Lai, and member of the N3C Consortium on the publication of in Gastroenterology. Nega Gebreyesus announced the formation of the Africa Chapter within the OHDSI community. If you want to join this chapter (or any workgroup), . The OHDSI and EHDEN community collaborated to host an E-Thon last week to expand the AESI study to new database around Europe. Thanks to Kees van Bochove and Erica Voss for sharing about this during the call. The next APAC community call will be Thursday, and it will feature a presentation on the EUMAEUS (Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance) study. This will be from the June 29 OHDSI community call. Dani Prieto-Alhambra announced to the community that his team at Oxford received NIHR funding to study the impact of COVID-19 vaccination on preventing Long COVID: a population-based cohort study using linked NHS data. Please reach out to Dani if you would like to collaborate with him. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, July 28, at 11 am. Jessica Gronsbell (University of Toronto) will present a talk on Statistical learning with electronic health record data. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The CDM Working Group will be holding a Hack-a-Thon on August 18-19. In preparation for the symposium, the team will be readying CDM v5.4 by writing both R code and documentation of the model. Everybody is welcome to join, regardless of skill level. There will be a one-hour inaugural open HL7-OHDSI meeting on Wednesday, Aug. 4 at 10 am ET). This meeting goal is to provide an update on plan for the collaboration, and learn how you can get involved. Speakers will include Ed Hammond, George Hripcsak, Wayne Kubick (HL7), Christian Reich (OHDSI), Floyd Eisenberg (HL7), and Jon Duke (OHDSI). Look for more information in the coming day on the forum.SlidesVideosHADES Unit-Test-A-Thon ReportHealth Equity Visualizations The July 20 OHDSI Community Call featured our fourth set of workgroup presentation at our weekly community call. We were excited to hear about four working groups: Early-Stage Researchers(Faaizah Arshad and Ross Williams) Women of OHDSI(Maura Beaton) Latin America(Jose Posada) Education(Nigel Hughes)Updates The HADES Unit-Test-A-Thon wa a terrific success, with (prior to the start, only six package were there). Martijn Schuemie gave a brief talk on the unit-test-a-thon, but there will be a more in-depth discussion about it during the July 27 community call. Congratulations to the team of Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Andrea Pistillo, Anthony Sena, Albert Prats-Uribe, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, Heba Alghoul, Thamir Alshammari, Osaid Alser, Carlos Areia, Edward Burn, Paula Casajust, Dalia Dawoud, Scott DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Asieh Golozar, Mengchun Gong, Lana Yin Hui Lai, Jennifer Lane, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Paras Mehta, Daniel Morales, Karthik Natarjan, Fredrik Nyberg, Jose Posada, Christian Reich, Peter Rijnbeek, Lisa Schilling, Karishma Shah, Nigam Shah, Vignesh Subbian, Lin Zhang, Hong Zhu, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Kristin Kostka and Talita Duarte-Salles on the publication of in the International Journal of Obesity. Congratulations to the team of Elena Roel, Andrea Pistillo, Martina Recalde, Anthony Sena, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Maria Aragon, Diana Puente, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, Heba Alghoul, Osaid Alser, Thamir Alshammari, Carlos Areia, Clair Blacketer, William Carter, Paula Casajust, Aedn Culhane, Dalia Dawoud, Frank DeFalco, Scott DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Asieh Golozar, Mengchun Gong, Laura Hester, George Hripcsak, Eng Hooi Tan, Hokyun Jeon, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Lana Lai, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Daniel Morales, Karthik Natarajan, Fredrik Nyberg, Anna Ostropolets, Jose Posada, Albert Prats-Uribe, Christian Reich, Donna Rivera, Lisa Schilling, Isabelle Soerjomataram, Karishma Shah, Nigam Shah, Yang Shen, Matthew Spotnitz, Vignesh Subbian, Marc Suchard, Annalisa Trama, Lin Zhang, Ying Zhang, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Kristin Kostka and Talita Duarte-Salles on the publication of in Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention. Congratulations to the team of Anna Ostropolets, Xintong Li, Rupa Makadia, Gowtham Rao, Peter Rijnbeek, Talita Duarte-Salles, Anthony Sena, Azza Shaoibi, Marc Suchard, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra and George Hripcsak on this recent preprint posted on MedRxiv: . Community feedback is welcome! Dani Prieto-Alhambra announced to the community that his team at Oxford received NIHR funding to study the impact of COVID-19 vaccination on preventing Long COVID: a population-based cohort study using linked NHS data. Please reach out to Dani if you would like to collaborate with him. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, July 28, at 11 am. Jessica Gronsbell (University of Toronto) will present a talk on Statistical learning with electronic health record data. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . ** Please note this is a NEW link than from previous updates. ** Peter Rijnbeek recently shared the news that the EMA ha launched a new call for tender for Real World Data subscription. The purpose of the call is to get access to and use of a set of individual patient-level database drawn from the population receiving primary care, specialist care or hospital care in the EEA countries. The application deadline is July 30, . The OHDSI APAC team announced that there will be a 2-day ETL training on August 12-13 (APAC time zone). This training will include the source data analysis, ETL development, and data quality check aspect of an OMOP conversion process. The registration deadline is July 23, and .Slides | | | | VideosEarly-Stage Researchers (presented by Faaizah Arshad and Ross Williams)Women of OHDSI (presented by Maura Beaton)Latin America (presented by Jose Posada)Education (presented by Nigel Hughes) The PROTEUS (Predicting & Recalibrating Outcomes Toward External Understanding Study) study wa presented during our July 13 Community Call.The foundation of this study took place during the 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium. The presentation wa led by the two study leaders, David Kent (Professor of Medicine, Clinical & Translational Science Tufts Medical Center) and Benjamin Wessler (Director, Valve Center; Assistant Professor, Tufts University School of Medicine).Updates The HADES Unit-Test-A-Thon will be held this Wednesday-Friday (July 14-16). Its goal is to increase the coverage of all HADES package to above 80%. If you have R experience, this is a great opportunity for you to improve the reliability of HADES tool (which are critical to our community success), learn more about OHDSI software and have fun with collaborator around the world. There is more information . If you would like to take part in this activity, . The next APAC Community Call will be held Thursday, July 15 (July 14 in part of the Western Hemisphere), and will include two main tutorial topics: Seng Chan You will provide An Introduction to the OMOP Oncology Module, while Jing Li will present on How to do a network study. These call take place within the OHDSI APAC team, though a direct link can be found on the . Two recent presentation from our APAC Community Calls are now available. Lei Liu presented on during the June 17 call, while Seng Chan You, Hua Xu, Tatsuo Hiramatsu, Jason C. Hsu, and Roger Ward provided during the July 1 call. Peter Rijnbeek recently shared the news that the EMA ha launched a new call for tender for Real World Data subscription. The purpose of the call is to get access to and use of a set of individual patient-level database drawn from the population receiving primary care, specialist care or hospital care in the EEA countries. The application deadline is July 30, . OHDSI follows the ICMJE guideline for authorship requirements. Our community ha significant collaboration on many studies, and at time it can be challenging to determine who qualifies for authorship on an OHDSI scientific paper. The OHDSI Steering Group recently created this sheet, which can help establish clear guideline in the process. This form is available on OHDSI.org under both the OHDSI Studies and Resources dropdowns. The OHDSI APAC team announced that there will be a 2-day ETL training on August 12-13 (APAC time zone). This training will include the source data analysis, ETL development, and data quality check aspect of an OMOP conversion process. The registration deadline is July 23, and . The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, July 28, at 11 am. Jessica Gronsbell (University of Toronto) will present a talk on Statistical learning with electronic health record data. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link .Slides | Video: PROTEUS Presentation Several global collaborators, including many newcomer making their first introduction to the community, joined the OHDSI Meet-and-Greet session during the July 6 Community Call. They shared a bit about their backgrounds, how they hope to help the OHDSI community in it mission, and how OHDSI can support their efforts. The full meet and greet is posted, and individual introduction are time-stamped below.Brianne Olivieri-Mui (0:00); Nick Giangreco (1:55); Adam Black (4:49); Karen Crowley (7:10); Harold Lehmann (10:00); Tina French (11:30); Aileen Prior (18:47); Aki Nishimura (23:20); Emily Scott (25:45); Mary Grace Bowring (26:18); Jacob Zelko (27:20); Morgan Cappa (30:22); Qian Zhu (31:48); John Gresh (35:13 / 37:37); Filip Maljkovic (36:15); Alexander Haslam (40:30); Behzad Naderalvojoud (42:09); Julie Lamoureux (45:26); Jody-Ann McLeggon (47:25).Updates Congratulations to the team of Christophe Gaudet-Blavignac, Jean Louis, Vasundra Tour, Sabine sterle, Katrin Crameri, and Christian Lovis on the recent study recently published in JMIR Medical Informatics. Congratulations to the team of Joo Rafael Almeida, Joo Figueira Silva, Srgio Matos, and Jos Lus Oliveira on the study published last week in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. There will be a HADES Unit-Test-A-Thon held July 14-16, which aim to increase the coverage of all HADES package to above 80%. If you have R experience, this is a great opportunity for you to improve the reliability of HADES tool (which are critical to our community success), learn more about OHDSI software and have fun with collaborator around the world. There is more information . If you would like to take part in this activity, . The is now available, and it includes information on OHDSI work around vaccine surveillance and health equity, a well a more update around our community and link to recent publication and presentations. If you arent receiving our monthly newsletter, . The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, July 28, at 11 am. Jessica Gronsbell (University of Toronto) will present a talk on Statistical learning with electronic health record data. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link .SlidesVideo: Meet and Greet The June 29 OHDSI community call featured a presentation on our EUMAEUS (Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance) study. Topics and presenter for this presentation are below Literature Review (Lana Lai, Postdoctoral Research Associate, University of Manchester) Overview of the EUMAEUS Experiment Design (Marc Suchard, Professor, Department of Biomathematics, UCLA) Bias, Precision and Timeliness of Historical Rate Comparison Methods (Xintong Li, DPhil Candidate, University of Oxford) Combining Methods in a Safety Surveillance System (Faaizah Arshad, Undergraduate, UCLA) Estimating for Two-Dose Vaccines (Ty Stanford, Data Analyst/Bioinformatician, University of South Australia) Comparison of Performance Across Methods (Martijn Schuemie, Research Fellow, Epidemiology Analytics, Janssen Research and Development) Updates Congratulations to the team of Noha Sharafeldin, Benjamin Bates, Qianqian Song, Vithal Madhira, Yao Yan, Sharlene Dong, Eileen Lee, Nathaniel Kuhrt, Yu Raymond Shao, Feifan Liu, Timothy Bergquist, Justin Guinney, Jing Su, and Umit Topaloglu on this N3C study recently published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, July 28, at 11 am. Jessica Gronsbell (University of Toronto) will present a talk on Statistical learning with electronic health record data. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . On July 6, we will have a community call focused on getting to know some newer member of the community. Many of you may have found OHDSI within the last year, and you may even participate in some study or workgroups, but we would like to give people the opportunity to introduce themselves to the broader community. We would enjoy hearing how you got here and how you hope to become involved in the community, and also how you hope the community can help you. If you would be interested in taking part in this, please reach out to Craig Sachson (), who is planning the session. The deadline for abstract submission for the ha passed, and we received more than 110 submission this year. The Scientific Review Committee will begin studying the submission this week. If you have been selected to present your work for the 2021 Symposium Collaborators Showcase, you will be notified via email by Monday, August 2. Slides | EUMAEUS Presentation The June 22 meeting featured a community brainstorm on how OHDSI can make an impact in the area of Health Equity. The conversation focused on two main topics: 1) What are the biggest challenge in the area of health equity research? 2) How can/should OHDSI, and specifically the OHDSI Health Equity Workgroup, make an impact around this important topic? Moderators for the session were: Nomie Elhadad (Associate Professor of Biomedical Informatics; Vice Chair, Research, Columbia University) Jake Gillberg (Health Equity WG Lead; Software Development Analyst, Tufts Clinical and Translational Science Institute) Jody-Ann McLeggon (Program Manager, OHDSI and Columbia University) The conversation can continue in the new in the general OHDSI Team, a well a a within that channel. Please share your thoughts, concerns, prior research, or anything you believe can help our community effort in this important area. Updates Congratulations to the Columbia University team of Junghwan Lee, Cong Liu, Jae Hyun Kim, Alex Butler, Ning Shang, Chao Pang, Karthik Natarajan, Patrick Ryan, Casey Ta, and Chunhua Weng for the study that wa recently published recently in JAMIA Open. Congratulations to Tarun Karthik Kumar Mamidi, Thi Tran-Nguyen, Ryan Melvin and Elizabeth Worthey for the study that wa published recently in Frontiers in Big Data. Congratulations to the EHDEN Consortium, . Seven new European nation (Greece, Bulgaria, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Luxembourg) will join a network that will include 101 data partner when harmonization ha competed this fall. EHDEN wa also pleased to welcome 12 new data partner which have a focus on oncology. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, July 28, at 11 am. Jessica Gronsbell (University of Toronto) will present a talk on Statistical learning with electronic health record data. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . On July 6, we will have a community call focused on getting to know some newer member of the community. Many of you may have found OHDSI within the last year, and you may even participate in some study or workgroups, but we would like to give people the opportunity to introduce themselves to the broader community. We would enjoy hearing how you got here and how you hope to become involved in the community, and also how you hope the community can help you. If you would be interested in taking part in this, please reach out to Craig Sachson (), who is planning the session. The deadline for abstract submission for the ha passed, and we received more than 110 submission this year. The Scientific Review Committee will begin studying the submission this week. If you have been selected to present your work for the 2021 Symposium Collaborators Showcase, you will be notified via email by Monday, August 2. Slides Brainstorm Recording The June 15 Community Call focused on professional development breakout discussions. The four area of focus (and conversation moderators) were: Clinical Epidemiology (Moderators: Talita Duarte-Salles and Dani Prieto-Alhambra) Information/Data Management (Moderators: Maxim Moinat and Mui Van Zandt) Open-Source Software Development (Moderators: Greg Klebanov and Kees van Bochove) Statistical Methods (Moderators: Yong Chen and Marc Suchard) Updates Congratulations to Xintong Li, Anna Ostropolets, Rupa Makadia, Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Anthony Sena, Eugenia Martinez-Hernandez, Antonella Delmestri, Katia Verhamme, Peter Rijnbeek, Talita Duarte-Salles, Marc Suchard, Patrick Ryan, George Hripcsak, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, for this recent study that wa posted today in The BMJ. You can learn more about this study in this . The next APAC Community Call will be June 17 and will focus on OHDSI Projects. Professor Lei Liu of Fudan University will provide a presentation on Applying the OMOP CDM to Hepatobiliary Clinical Research Database at Zhongshan Hospital. Also, Mui Van Zandt will lead a discussion about collecting attitudinal information from the community to support planning and activities. This call will be held in MS Teams; if you dont have access to this team, . The format of the June 22 OHDSI community call ha been changed. We will now have a community brainstorm on how OHDSI should focus on Health Inequities. This conversation will be open to everybody on the call, and it will help inform the new Health Equity Workgroup, which will meet for the first time later in the month. Priya Desai alerted the community about a clinical data scientist opening that will be posted shortly with the Research IT group of the Technology and Digital Solutions team at Stanford Health Care. Look for a forum posting soon, but if you have immediate question or interest, you can reach out to Priya at . The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be this Wednesday, June 16, at 11 am. Bruce Fireman (Kaiser Permanente) will present a talk on Methods for Monitoring the Safety and Effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The deadline for abstract submission for the is THIS WEEK (June 18, 2021 at 8 pm ET). We are accepting submission for posters, oral presentation and software demonstrations. For more information, including the submission template, . There wa also a brief presentation during last week community call about submitting your brief reports, . Slides Breakout Recordings Clinical Epidemiology Information/Data Management Open-Source Software Development Statistical Methods In our second session of 10-Minute Tutorials we were excited to have three community veteran share the following presentation on open-source tools. Videos of these tutorial are posted below.PHOEBE(Anna Ostropolets)Cohort Diagnostics(Gowtham Rao)ATC Hierarchy(Christian Reich)Updates Congratulations to Gyu Lee Kim, Yu Hyeon Yi, Hye Rim Hwang, Jinmi Kim, Youngmin Park, Yun Jin Kim, Jeong Gyu Lee, Young Jin Tak, Seung Hun Lee, Sang Yeoup Lee, Youn Hye Cho, Eun Ju Park, and Youngin Lee for this recent study that wa posted last week in the Journal of Clinical Medicine. Last week APAC Community Call featured two exciting APAC Network Research presentations, both of which have been posted to the website. Byungkon Kang presented on , while Ty Stanford presented on the . The next APAC Community Call will be June 17 and will be held in MS Teams; if you dont have access to this team, . The The Journey wa published last week and it includes information on the two CHARYBDIS study posted last month, the work with the PIONEER Prostate Cancer team, link to community call presentations, the monthly video podcast, and much more. If you didnt receive it, . Dave Kern shared an opening for Associate Director in Epidemiology within Janssen R&D. The epidemiologist will support the Real-World Assessment and Research of Drug Performance (REWARD) initiative, an ambitious collaborative effort to develop a systematic process for observational database analysis to enable exploration and identification of differentiated benefit of medical product to support R&Ds clinical development strategy. This position will also perform pharmacoepidemiology activity to support the neuroscience therapeutic area, including characterizing disease natural history and treatment patterns, safety evaluations, benefit- risk assessments, and patient-level prediction models. More information and an application link . The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, June 16, at 11 am. Bruce Fireman (Kaiser Permanente) will present a talk on Methods for Monitoring the Safety and Effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The deadline for abstract submission for the is le than two week away (June 18, 2021 at 8 pm ET). We are accepting submission for posters, oral presentation and software demonstrations. For more information, including the submission template, . There wa also a brief presentation during last week community call about submitting your brief reports, .Slides | | | Video PresentationsPHOEBE (Anna Ostropolets)Cohort Diagnostics (Gowtham Rao)ATC Hierarchy (Christian Reich) Patrick Ryan provided this mid-year update on where the OHDSI community, a well a several workgroups, stand in relation to 2021 Objectives & Key Results (OKR), a set in the beginning of the year. As a reminder, these three OKRs were set a 2021 goal for the OHDSI community:1) Generate and disseminate real-world evidence about the 3 substantial public health issues: COVID-19, type 2 diabetes, and health inequalities2) Enable a community to generate real-world evidence using OHDSI tool and scientific best practices3) Build an international medical product safety surveillance system that provides all stakeholder access to evidence about the incidence and risk of outcome associated with drug exposureWhere is OHDSI on pace, and where doe it need to ramp up it efforts. Check out this presentation and Join The Journey with our community for the rest of 2021 and beyond!Updates Congratulations to Talita Duarte-Salles, David Vizcaya, Andrea Pistillo, Paula Casajust, Anthony G. Sena, Lana Yin Hui Lai, Albert Prats-Uribe, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, Thamir M Alshammari, Heba Alghoul, Osaid Alser, Edward Burn, Seng Chan You, Carlos Areia, Clair Blacketer, Scott DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Stephen Fortin, Asieh Golozar, Mengchun Gong, Eng Hooi Tan, Vojtech Huser, Pablo Iveli, Daniel R. Morales, Fredrik Nyberg, Jose D. Posada, Martina Recalde, Elena Roe, Lisa M. Schilling, Nigam H. Shah, Karishma Shah, Marc A. Suchard, Lin Zhang, Ying Zhang, Andrew E. Williams, Christian G. Reich, George Hripcsak, Peter Rijnbeek, Patrick Ryan, Kristin Kostka and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra for this CHARYBDIS study that wa posted last week in Pediatrics.There is a on the . The most recent Asia-Pacific (APAC) Community Call featured 10-minute tutorial that have now been posted to the . The tutorial focused on (Xialin Wang), (Seng Chan You) and (Selva Muthu Kumaran Sathappan). Due to technical issues, the DQD video ended prematurely; we apologize for not having the full tutorial. The next APAC Community Call will be this Thursday/Wednesday, and the focus will be APAC Network Research. Byungkon Kang will present on Automated terminology mapping via deep learning-based semantic matching, while Ty Stanford will present on the LEGEND Shiny App. The APAC Community Calls are held in MS Teams; if you dont have access to this team, . There is a job opening for Senior Manager, Clinical Informatics at Regeneron. The company is seeking candidate with experience in ML/analytics and OHDSI. The full description and link to apply . The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, June 16, at 11 am. Bruce Fireman (Kaiser Permanente) will present a talk on Methods for Monitoring the Safety and Effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The deadline for abstract submission for the is le than THREE WEEKS away (June 18, 2021). We are accepting submission for posters, oral presentation and software demonstrations. For more information, including the submission template, . There wa also a brief presentation during last week community call about submitting your brief reports, .Slides | OHDSI OKR Mid-Year Review Presentation (Patrick Ryan) The OHDSI Community Call took a break from serious science and spent May 25 on fun and games. Patrick Ryan led the community in 3 different interactive games: 3 Degrees of OHDSI.org, Two (Eight?) Truths and a Lie, and Name That Tune. Check out the fun in the recording below!Updates Congratulations to Hyunah Shin and Suehyun Lee on this study published by BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making: . Both Patrick Ryan and Nigam Shah presented during the Building Data Capacity for Patient Centered Outcomes Research: Data Standards, Methods, and Policy Workshop for The National Academies on May 24. Patrick presented a session entitled , while Nigam presented on . Links in the title go to their slides. The EHDEN Consortium announced that the fourth open data partner call . The Data Source Prioritisation Committee (DSPC) is now reviewing these applications, which cover more than 80 million patient records. The next edition of the CBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series will be Wednesday, June 16, at 11 am. Bruce Fireman (Kaiser Permanente) will present a talk on Methods for Monitoring the Safety and Effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. The seminar series is open to everybody. More information and a registration link . The second edition of the CBER Best Seminar Series, which featured Ben Goldsteins presentation on Understanding Informed Presence in Electronic Health Records . The deadline for abstract submission for the is le than one month away (June 18, 2021). We are accepting submission for posters, oral presentation and software demonstrations. For more information, including the submission template, . There wa also a brief presentation during last week community call about submitting your brief reports, .OHDSI Games Video The May 18 OHDSI Community Call featured a presentation from six representative (Kees van Bochove, Giorgio Gandaglia, Asieh Golozar, Bertrand de Meulder, Ariel Achtman, and Robert Snijder) from the PIONEER Prostate Cancer Study-A-Thon. They provided a full report on the five-day event and the ongoing work that came from it. This study-a-thon wa a collaboration between PIONEER (European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer), OHDSI and EHDEN.Want to get involved in this important work moving forward? Here is contact information for the team leads, a well a for PIONEER/EHDEN/OHDSI.Clinical characterization: Giorgio Gandaglia (giorgio.gandaglia@gmail.com) Phenotyping: Asieh Golozar (golozar@ohdsi.org) and Shilpa Ratwani (shilpa@ohdsi.org)Prediction: Ronald Herrera (ronald.herrera@bayer.com)Data sources/study execution: Susan Evans Axelsson (susan.evans_axelsson@med.lu.se)PIONEER: Carl Steinbeisser (carl@collaborate.eu) and Emma Jane Smith (e.smith@uroweb.org)EHDEN: Nigel Hughes (nhughes@its.jnj.com)OHDSI: Peter Rijnbeek (rijnbeek@ohdsi.org)Updates Congratulations to Byungkon Kang, Jisang Yoon, Ha Young Kim, Sung Jin Jo, Yourim Lee, and Hye Jin Kam on the publication of in JAMIA this past week. The OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute , where you can learn more about how the Center will benefit collaborators, and how you can become involved. The next APAC Community Call will be this week (Thursday/Wednesday, depending on your location), and the focus will be 10-minute tutorials. Xialin Wang will present WhiteRabbit and Rabbit-In-A-Hat, Seng Chan You will present Usagi, and Sathappan Selva Muthu Kumaran will present the Data Quality Dashboard. You can access these call , or watch the recording on OHDSI.org. The deadline for abstract submission for the is just over one month away (June 18, 2021). We are accepting submission for posters, oral presentation and software demonstrations. For more information, including the submission template, . There will also be a brief discussion on this prior to the presentation of the PIONEER Prostate Cancer Study-a-thon.Slides | Video Presentation The May 11 OHDSI Community Call featured two debate surrounding our effort to efficiently and reliably generate real-world evidence across multiple data sources.Debate 1: It is more important to keep OHDSI standardized vocabulary up-to-date in content through a continuous release lifecycle than to align the OHDSI network on a common vocabulary version. (Debaters: Christian Reich and Peter Rijnbeek)Debate 2: Observational study are best conducted a a distributed network analysis and not a centralized data repository.(Debaters: Kristin Kostka and Andrew Williams)Updates Congratulations to Albert Prats-Uribe, Anthony Sena, Lana Yin Hui Lai, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, Heba Alghoul, Osaid Alser, Thamir Alshammari , Carlos Areia, William Carter, Paula Casajust, Dalia Dawoud, Asieh Golozar, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Paras Mehta, Mengchun Gong, Daniel R. Morales, Fredrik Nyberg, Jose Posada, Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Karishma Shah, Nigam Shah, Lisa Schilling, Vignesh Subbian, David Vizcaya, Lin Zhang, Ying Zhang, Hong Zhu, Li Liu, Jaehyeong Cho, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Seng Chan You, Peter Rijnbeek, George Hripcsak, Jennifer Lane, Edward Burn, Christian Reich, Marc Suchard, Talita Duarte-Salles, Kristin Kostka, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on this CHARYBDIS study posted: . Congratulations to the team of R P Vogelsang, R D Bojesen, E R Hoelmich, A Orhan, F Buzquurz, L Cai, C Grube, J A Zahid, E Allakhverdiiev, H H Raskov, I Drakos, N Derian, P B Ryan, P R Rijnbeek, I Ggenur for the study published recently by BJS Open. Call for Collaboration: Seng Chan You is seeking collaborator to join in the following OHDSI Network Study: CEEAMOS (Comparative Estimation of the Effects of Anti-hypertensive Medications on the Occurrence of Schizophrenia). More information, a well a the link to the study package, . The second seminar from the CBER Best Initiative Series, which featured Ben Goldsteins discussion on Understanding Informed Presence in Electronic Health Records Data, wa held last Wednesday. If you missed it, or want to watch it again, . will conclude this Thursday, May 13, at 17:00 CET. If you have any question about the project, Jenny Lane provided a presentation that is now available . We had a terrific APAC Community Call last week. Anton van der Vegt , while Mui Van Zandt . Next week call is scheduled to focus on 10-minute tutorials, and all past recording are available on OHDSI.org. We are just over one month away from the June 18 deadline for submission . We are accepting submission for posters, oral presentation and software demos. We will share more information during the May 18 community call, to learn more. Arthur Goldberg announced that he ha been invited to guest edit a Methods Collections for the vido journal JoVE () and proposed a collection focused on Methods and tool for international collaboration that mine electronic health record to better understand health and disease and thereby enable better healthcare. If anybody is interested in contributing to this collection please contact him. His email is .Debate RecordingsDebate 1: It is more important to keep OHDSI standardized vocabulary up-to-date in content through a continuous release lifecycle than to align the OHDSI network on a common vocabulary version. (Debaters: Christian Reich and Peter Rijnbeek)Debate 2: Observational study are best conducted a a distributed network analysis and not a centralized data repository.(Debaters: Kristin Kostka and Andrew Williams) The May 4 OHDSI Community Call wa our third session dedicated to workgroup updates. Workgroup lead shared recent accomplishments, a well a key objective for the future. The groups/presenters were GIS Geographic Information System (Robert Miller);PEI Pharmacovigilance Evidence Investigation (Erica Voss); UK Biobank/Registry (Maxim Moinat); and Electronic Health Records(Melanie Philofsky).Updates Congratulations to Matthew Spotnitz, George Hripcsak, Patrick Ryan and Karthik Natarajan on this MedRxiv preprint: . Community feedback is appreciated. Congratulations to Kristin Kostka, who began her new position a the Director of the OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute at Northeastern University this week. Collaborator Evan Minty, a general internist and clinical assistant professor at the OBrien Institute for Public Health at the University of Calgary, Canada, wa profiled in the . Among the topic Evan discus is a potential Surgery and Perioperative Medicine workgroup he would like to develop moving forward. The next will be this week (Thursday/Wednesday, depending on your location), and the focus will be collaborator presentations. Dr. Anton van der Vegt will discus the Australian real-world research infrastructure pilot, while Mui Van Zandt will present on OHDSI CDM 5.4 changes. You can access these call , or watch the recording on our . The , OHDSIs official community newsletter, is now available. Learn more about how OHDSI enhanced it own foundation, while also learning about several global and local studies, the latest EHDEN data partner call, and plenty more. . Erasmus MC recently shared a story about the latest EHDEN data call, which includes a 5 million budget available to health data expert wishing to standardize their databases. . Our Janssen R&D Epidemiology friend are hiring two undergraduate or graduate level summer intern to assist with project in the Observational Health Data Analytics (OHDA) team. , and the application deadline is May 7, 2021. If interested in this position, please send your CV with a brief description of your interest to Rupa Makadia ().Presentation Slides | | | UK Biobank | Presentation RecordingsGIS Geographic Information System (Robert Miller, Tufts)PEI Pharmacovigilance Evidence Investigation (Erica Voss, Janssen R&D)UK Biobank/Registry (Maxim Moinat, The Hyve)Electronic Health Records (Melanie Philofsky, OdysseusData Services) The April 27 OHDSI Community Call wa our first Networking Session-themed call. Thank you to everybody who joined u in the GatherTown setting for great conversations, both around full table or smaller one-on-one settings. We look forward to doing this again on a future community call.Updates Congratulations to Yingcheng Sun, Alex Butler, Latoya Stewart, Hao Liu, Chi Yuan, Christopher Southard, Jae Hyun Kim, and Chunhua Weng on the recent study , which wa published in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. Congratulations to George Hripcsak, Martijn Schuemie, David Madigan, Patrick Ryan and Marc Suchard on the recent study , which wa published in the Yearbook of Medical Informatics. HADES (Health Analytics Data-to-Evidence Suite) wa after achieving more than 200,000 downloads on CRAM. This set of 20 open-source R package is foundational to OHDSIs mission, but it is being maintained by a small core within the community. Please learn more about HADES, and see how greater community support in a variety of way can ensure future success for our open-source toolset. The April 22 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Community Call featured update from the six regional chapter (Australia, China, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan).Mui Van Zandtprovided a brief overview of those update during this call (see slide and video below). is a new feature on that share weekly updates, publications, presentation from the community call, and more. It will be updated each Wednesday. The (CPRD) ha a vacancy for an OMOP expert / health database researcher. CPRD ha converted the CPRD Aurum primary care electronic health record (EHR) database into an OMOP CDM version and are seeking an individual with expertise in using the OMOP CDM and strong technical skill to support ongoing validation work. The successful candidate will also train user within CPRD in the use of the OHDSI analytical infrastructure. The position will be hosted within the Observational Research team, but will require close collaboration with the Health Data Science team who manage the technical implementation. For more information and a detailed vacancy specification please contact: Darren Lunn, Head of Health Data Science, CPRD ().Presentation Slides | Presentation RecordingsAsia-Pacific Regional Updates The April 20 OHDSI Community Call focused on Local Impacts of OHDSI.While there are several global network study ongoing in OHDSI, there are also important impact happening within local institution a well, either through the adoption of the OMOP CDM and/or use of OHDSI tools. Alison Callahan and Jose Posada (Stanford University), Lisa Schilling (University of Colorado Denver), and Karthik Natarajan (Columbia University) shared some recent success story for our community. Updates George Hripcsak shared a presentation on Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics, Interoperability, and Research with the ONC Interoperability Standards Priorities Task Force last Friday. Community feedback prior to the presentation wa appreciated. You can access Georges . The for the 2021 OHDSI Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase ha officially opened. All submission are due no later than 8 pm (EST) on Friday, June 18, 2021.We will have more information during future community call to assist in this topic. EHDEN ha launched it , which run until May 13, 2021. The first three call combined to welcome 61 data partner across Europe into the EHDEN collaboration. This is a general call across therapeutic area and diverse type of health data. EHDEN welcome all applications, but application from country not yet (or minimally) represented in the EHDEN Network will be especially welcome. EHDEN just closed it third call for small-to-medium enterprise to conduct mapping for the network of data partners. While there is still work to be done, the EHDEN leadership wa excited about this recent session and how it can build on the current foundation of 26 SMEs working within EHDEN. Congrats to both the EHDEN team and all the SMEs who took part in the call. Congratulations to the EHDEN Academy leadership team, a the online learning platform recently reached the 1000-student milestone. You can . Congratulations to Kristin Kostka, who wa by her alma mater, Elon University. The first meeting of the Education Workgroup will be held Friday, April 23, at 8 am ET. There isnt a meeting link yet, but please check either the Education Workgroup on Teams or the for update this week. The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) at Columbia University is looking to hire two Clinical Research Data Analysts. The successful candidate will be responsible for curating EHR data from a network of health provider organization across the country. The candidate will work with Karthik Natarajan, who will present at Tuesdays community call, and his Research Operations team. The team is looking for data analyst with strong SQL and Python skills, a well a effective interpersonal skill and a passion for advancing large scale observational research. For more details, and to apply, please check out the following links: Post #1 Post #2 Monica Arrue posted an opportunity to join the IOMED data engineering team. IOMEDs product consist of an integrated suite of tool that dramatically simplify the process of clinical research, by structuring clinical data and providing unified and standardized access to it. The core of your role will be designing, implementing, and testing data extraction and transformation tool on a micro service environment. a well a to collaborate in the development and maintenance of the main product of the company: data processing pipelines, data model transformations, and component of a multi-modal distributed database. More information and a contact email . Presentation Slides | | | Presentation Recordings Stanford University (Alison Callahan/Jose Posada) University of Colorado-Denver (Lisa Schilling) Columbia University (Karthik Natarajan) The April 13 OHDSI Community Call provided tutorial on four open-source tool that can aid observational research. The four presentation are available below.Updates Registration for the 2021 Global OHDSI Symposium is now open. , a well a , are now available on . Registration remains free for the four-day event, which take place Sept. 12-15. All OHDSI activity depend largely on government grant and organization sponsorships; please email if you would like to consider sponsorship opportunity for this year symposium. Last week, Patrick Ryan asked for feedback from the FDA/CBER draft master protocol for their COVID-19 vaccine safety surveillance efforts, and the community responded. There is another opportunity to voice your thoughts, a the FDA/CBER draft protocol for wa recently posted. This could be of particular interest to many of you who are interested in phenotype evaluation or have been developing COVID-related phenotypes. You can . George Hripcsak also shared a forum post about a presentation he will provide about OHDSI and Interoperability to the ONC Interoperability Standards Priorities Task Force this Friday. George asked for feedback on thought we should share a a community in this area. Weve already received some detailed feedback on this topic, but there is still time to share your thoughts. The . Last week community call wa all about ongoing network studies, but what happens if you have an idea for a new study, but dont know how to get started. Sarah Seager and Ian Wong are leading an IQVIA webinar about how to design and execute observational network study this Thursday at 10 am ET? You can . Sonia Araujo will present the work of the OHDSI Clinical Trials WG during the CDISC 2021 Europe Interchange. The presentation Expanding the OMOP Observational Data Standard to Capture Clinical Trial Data will take place April 28 at 16:30 CET/10:30 EDT. You can .Video TutorialsATHENA/Vocabulary (Michael Kallfelz)Creating Cohort Definitions in ATLAS (Asieh Golozar)ACHILLES (Frank DeFalco)USAGI (Maxim Moinat) The April 6 OHDSI Community Call focused on OHDSI Studies. Leads from six different network study provided presentation on work happening around the community. Videos/slides from all presentation are available below. Updates and Shoutouts Congratulations to the team of Jimyung Park, Seng Chan You, Eugene Jeong, Chunhua Weng, Dongsu Park, Jin Roh, Dong Yun Lee, Jae Youn Cheong, Jin Wook Choi, Mira Kang, and Rae Woong Park for this recent study in JMIR Informatics: . Congratulations to the team of Hao Liu, Yuan Chi, Alex Butler, Yingcheng Sun, Chunhua Weng for this study published in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics: . Congratulations to Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco, Patrick Ryan and Peter Rijnbeek on this recent preprint posted to MedRxiv: . Community feedback is appreciated. Patrick Ryan shared asking for community feedback on the recent FDA/CBER. Leaders of our OHDSI team working with the FDA will collate response and provide a collective response from the community. Please share all feedback by midnight Wednesday, a public response is due Thursday. You can post to the thread, or in the EUMAEUS channel within the PLE/PLP team. The next OHDSI APAC Community Call will be this week and will focus on OMOP Projects. Scheduled presenter will be Yuan Lu (Comprehensive comparative effectiveness and safety of second-line antihypertensive agents: Utilizing the LEGEND principle to mobilize collaboration across the OHDSI APAC network) and Namki Hong (Development of Common Data Model for Rare Endocrine Diseases (REDCDM) platform). More information is available on our . The April edition of wa posted last week, and link to all of the paper and preprints discussed on the community call over the last month, a well a update on OHDSI work with the FDA, the new collaboration with HL7, advance in patient-level prediction, and much more. Slides | | | | | | Video Presentation 2:10 Cancer Risk Between H2 Blockers (Seng Chan You) 7:33 MSKAI- Musculoskeletal adverse event following hormonal treatment for breast cancer: Cohort Diagnostics to establish feasibility (Jenny Lane) 14:15 Covid-19 pandEmic impact on mental health Related condition Via multi-database nEtwork: a LongitutinaL Observational (CERVELLO) study (Carmen Olga-Torre) 19:33 Alpha-1 blocker for Palliating Inflammatory injury Severity (APIS) study (Aki Nishimura) 25:33 Calculating the background rate of adverse event of special interest (AESI) for the COVID vaccine (Xintong Li) 33:11 EUMAEUS Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Event Under Surveillance (Martijn Schuemie) The March 30 OHDSI Community Call focused on Data Visualizations. After a brief discussion about the impact of data visualization in science, member of the community shared their own submission to the March 2021 Challenge, which asked people to share one visualization that used OHDSI tools/data/results to tell a compelling story that touched on the COVID pandemic. Updates and Shoutouts Congratulations to the team of Xintong Li, Anna Ostropolets, Rupa Makadia, Azza Shaoibi, Gowtham Rao, Anthony Sena, Eugenia Martinez-Hernandez, Antonella Delmestri, Katia Verhamme, Peter Rijnbeek, Talita Duarte-Salles, Marc Suchard, Patrick Ryan, George Hripcsak, and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra for the first preprint coming out of our work on vaccine surveillance: . This preprint ha been posted to MedRxiv, and community feedback is both welcomed and encouraged. Congratulations to the team of Seng Chan You, Harlan Krumholz, Marc Suchard, Martijn Schuemie, George Hripcsak, RuiJun Chen, Steven Shea, Jon Duke, Nicole Pratt, Christian Reich, David Madigan, Patrick Ryan, Rae Woong Park, and Sungha Park for this study published in Hypertension: . Congratulations to the team of Sara Khalid, Cynthia Yang, Clair Blacketer, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Chungsoo Kim, Rae Woong Park, Jimyung Park, Martijn Schuemie, Anthony Sena, Marc Suchard, Seng Chan You, Peter Rijnbeek, and Jenna Reps for this preprint recently posted on MedRxiv: . Congratulations to the team of Akihiko Nishimura, Junqing Xie, Kristin Kostka, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernndez Bertoln, Mara Aragn, Clair Blacketer, Azza Shoaibi, Scott DuVall, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Thomas Falconer, Daniel Morales, Mitchell Conover, Seng Chan You, Nicole Pratt, James Weaver, Anthony Sena, Martijn Schuemie, Jenna Reps, Christian Reich, Peter Rijnbeek, Patrick Ryan, George Hripcsak, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Marc Suchard for this recent preprint posted on MedRxiv: . Slides Video Presentation The March 23 OHDSI Community Call focused on for a presentation on OHDSIs work with the FDA BEST program to support it mission to conduct safety and effectiveness surveillance of biologic product (vaccines, blood and blood products, tissue and advanced therapeutics). Updates and Shoutouts Congratulations to Eng Hooi Tan, Anthony Sena, Albert Prats-Uribe, Seng Chan You, Waheed-Ul-Rahman Ahmed, Kristin Kostka, Christian Reich, Scott Duvall, Kristine Lynch, Michael Matheny, Talita Duarte-Salles, Sergio Fernandez Bertolin, George Hripcsak, Karthik Natarajan, Thomas Falconer, Matthew Spotnitz, Anna Ostropolets, Clair Blacketer, Thamir Alshammari, Heba Alghoul, Osaid Alser, Jennifer Lane, Dalia Dawoud, Karishma Shah, Yue Yang, Lin Zhang, Carlos Areia, Asieh Golozar, Martina Recalde, Paula Casajust, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Vignesh Subbian, David Vizcaya, Lana Lai, Fredrik Nyberg, Daniel Morales, Jose Posada, Nigam Shah, Mengchun Gong, Arani Vivekanantham, Aaron Abend, Evan Minty, Marc Suchard, Peter Rijnbeek, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra on publication of this study in Rheumatology: . Congratulations to Torunn Elise Sivesind, Taylor Runion, Megan Branda, Lisa Schilling, and Robert Dellavalle on this study published in Dermatology: . The next APAC Community Call will be this week (Thursday/Wednesday depending on time zone). The focus will be ODHSI APAC Network Research, and there are two exciting presentation scheduled to be shared. Assistant Professor will present on Comprehensive comparative effectiveness and safety of second-line antihypertensive agents: Utilizing the LEGEND principle to mobilize collaboration across the OHDSI APAC network, while Dr. Feng Lei will present Treatment Patterns and Risk of Switch to Mania in Bipolar Depressive Patients Treated with Antidepressants: A real world study using the OHDSI Network. These call are hosted in the OHDSI APAC environment in Teams. You can join the call . If you dont have access to the OHDSI APAC environment, . If you cant make the call, all recording will be added to . The first session of theCBER BEST Initiative Seminar Series, hosted by Northeastern University, will be held Wednesday, March 24, at 11 am ET. Dr. Daniel Salmon, a member of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, will present Vaccine Safety Surveillance Systems for Routine and Pandemic Immunization Programs. This a free event and open to anybody. Register: . In preparation for the potential release of CDM Version 5.4 later this year, the Common Data Model workgroup ha scheduled a special two-hour planning session to be held Tuesday, March 30, at 1 pm in the CDM Teams environment. Clair Blacketer ha shared a proposed list of change that is posted in the General CDM thread. Please join for some or all of the meeting if you are interested in helping shape the next update of the OMOP CDM. The deadline for the OHDSI March Visualization Challenge is this Thursday, March 25, at 8 pm ET, and we already have some terrific entries. Please check out the channel within the general OHDSI page for full instructions. During next week community call, we are excited to highlight these visualization that use OHDSI tools/data/results to tell the most compelling story touching on the COVID pandemic. We want to hear from a many member of our community a possible! Slides | Video Presentation The March 16 OHDSI Community Call featured presentation from Jenna Reps, Henrik John and Ross Williams on Advances in Patient-Level Prediction.OHDSI Shoutouts and Updates Congratulations to Alison Callahan, Vladimir Polony, Jos Posada, Juan Banda, Saurabh Gombar, and Nigam Shah on publication of the study in JAMIA. Congratulations to Jungchan Park, Seung-Hwa Lee, Seng Chan You, Jinseob Kim, Kwangmo Yang on this study published in PLOS ONE: . Two leader in the OHDSI community recently achieved professional milestones. Hua Xu, who lead our NLP and China workgroups, wa , while Seng Chan You, a leader in our Asia-Pacific community, recently started a new position a Research Assistant Professor in Severance Hospital in Seoul, South Korea. Congratulations to both Hua and Chan! Chan announced that the Yonsei University Hospital System will join OHDSI a an active collaborator a part of the most . In this Q&A, Chan also discus his new role, OHDSIs growth in the Asia-Pacific region, leading the COVID-19 data sharing efforts, and plenty more. The OHDSI APAC webpage is now live: . This page will include recording from all APAC community calls, which are held bi-weekly on Wednesday at 10 pm ET. It also includes information about upcoming calls, the different APAC regional chapters, how to engage with the APAC community, and more. The Pioneer/EHDEN/OHDSI prostate cancer study-a-thon wa a terrific success last week, with more than 200 participant joining the important effort. We look forward to having representative from the study-a-thon present on the research and finding in a future community call! Two potential OHDSI workgroups were proposed in recent forum posts. Nigel Hughes , while Faaizah Arhsad . Please take a look at these post and provide feedback if you are interested! EHDEN opened to apply for training and certification to convert health data from various form to the OMOP common data model. This call will run from March 15 through April 12. EHDEN currently ha 26 SMEs to support mapping and sustainability for a network currently including 60 data partner (there will be two more data partner call in 2021). Check out , which came from a February community call presentation. The OHDSI March Visualization Challenge is underway, and we already have a handful of entries. Please check out the channel within the general OHDSI page for full instructions, and to see a few of the early post that highlight a visualization using OHDSI tools/data/results that tell the most compelling story touching on the COVID pandemic.Save The DatesThe 2021 OHDSI Symposium will be Sept. 12-15, with the main symposium taking place Monday, Sept. 13. We dont know if this will be in-person, hybrid or completely virtual, so there are more detail to come, but please save these dates.Presentation Slides RecordingsBest Practices for Prediction Using Observational Data (Jenna Reps)External Validation of Existing Dementia Prediction Models on Observational Health Data (Henrik John)Reducing Risk of Reproducing Research Wrong: Creation of a Patient-Level Prediction Model Library (Ross Williams) The March 9 OHDSI Community Call featured workgroup update from leader within the Oncology, Psychiatry, NLP and Medical Devices teams.OHDSI Shoutouts and Updates Congratulations to Jenna Reps, Chungsoo Kim, Ross Williams, Aniek Markus, Cynthia Yang, Talita Duarte-Salles, Thomas Falconer, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Andrew Williams, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Scott DuVall, Kristin Kostka, Gowtham Rao, Azza Shoaibi, Anna Ostropolets, Matthew Spotnitz, Lin Zhang, Paula Casajust, Ewout Steyerberg, Fredrik Nyberg, Benjamin Skov Kaas-Hansen, Young Hwa Choi, Daniel Morales, Siaw-Teng Liaw, Maria Tereza Fernandes Abraho, Carlos Areia, Michael E Matheny, Mara Aragn, Rae Woong Park, George Hripcsak, Christian Reich, Marc Suchard, Seng Chan You, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Peter Rijnbeek on this paper published by JBIR Medical Informatics: . Congratulations to Jingqi Wang, Noor Abu-el-Rub, Josh Gray, Huy Anh Pham, Yujia Zhou, Frank Manion, Mei Liu, Xing Song, Hua Xu, Masoud Rouhizadeh, and Yaoyun Zhang on this recent JAMIA study: . The Prostate Cancer Study-A-Thon started Monday with more than 200 registered participants. It ha been a collaborative effort between PIONEER, EHDEN and the OHDSI community. You can learn , which will take place through Friday. Our third OHDSI APAC Community Call will be this week (Wednesday at 10 pm ET), and it will feature a pair of community presentation from the 2020 APAC Symposium. Ty Stanford will present his work on Mapping to standardised vocabularies: a process for medicine code in Australia, while Jason Hsu and Alex Nguyen will present Introduction of Taipei Medical University Clinical Research Database; TMUCDR OHDSI CDM Mapping Progress.These call have been moved to our Teams environment and are available within the OHDSI APAC team. If you dont currently have access to this team, . You can also Patrick Ryan shared a call for participation in the . The package wa recently revised to reflect change made by the FDA, and revision have been posted to the Github. Thank you to all the data partner who have already participated, and those who havent can connect with .Save The DatesThe 2021 OHDSI Symposium will be Sept. 12-15, with the main symposium taking place Monday, Sept. 13. We dont know if this will be in-person, hybrid or completely virtual, so there are more detail to come, but please save these dates.Presentation Slides RecordingsOncology WG (Shilpa Ratwani)Psychology WG (Dmitry Dymshyts)Natural Language Processing WG (Hua Xu)Medical Devices WG (Asiyah Lin) The March 2 OHDSI Community Call featured breakout session on some important tools/processes for collaborative research: ETL, ATLAS and HADES. OHDSI Shoutouts and Updates OHDSI and HL7 recently announced a collaboration to address the sharing and tracking of data in the healthcare and research industry by creating a single common data model. The organization will integrate HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) and OHDSIs OMOP common data model to achieve this goal. . Congratulations to Ed Burn, Anthony Sena, Kristin Kostka, Talita Duarte-Salles, Dani Prieto-Alhambra and the full team (42 authors!) on this February MedRxiv preprint coming from our #OHDSICOVID19 work in CHARYBDIS: . Community feedback is appreciated for these preprints. Congratulations to Kristin Kostka, Talita Duarte-Salles, Albert Prats-Uribe, Anthony Sena, and the entire team for submitting the manuscript about the overall CHARYBDIS study for peer review. The study is now available . The upcoming PIONEER/EHDEN/OHDSI study-a-thon to start in le than one week. You can register for the event, scheduled for March 8-12, . Save The Dates The 2021 OHDSI Symposium will be Sept. 12-15, with the main symposium taking place Monday, Sept. 13. We dont know if this will be in-person, hybrid or completely virtual, so there are more detail to come, but please save these dates. Presentation Slides Recordings ATLAS Breakout (Facilitators: Greg Klebanov and Anthony Sena) ETL Breakout (Facilitators: Clair Blacketer and Melanie Philofsky) HADES Breakout (Facilitators: Adam Black and Marc Suchard) The Feb. 23 OHDSI Community Call focused on research update within the OHDSI community (CHARYBDIS, SCYLLA and Vaccine AESI Incidence Characterization).OHDSI Shoutouts and UpdatesCongratulations to some of our Stanford collaborators, including Nigam Shah, Alison Callahan and Jose Posada, for their work on using OHDSI infrastructure to inform COVID care guideline at Stanford Health Care. These effort by NBC Bay Area.The new Asia-Pacific (APAC) community calls, which are held every other week on Wednesdays at 10 pm ET, have been moved to the MS Teams environment. The next call will be this Wednesday, Feb. 24, and you can find the link in the OHDSI APAC team, or .We are close to submitting the manuscript for our CHARYBDIS 1.0 paper. All COI form are due this Wednesday, while we are hoping to have data partner approvals/signoffs by Friday (please let Kristin Kostka know if you need more time for this). Please check your email from around Feb. 11 if you think this could refer to you. More information is in the Study CHARYBDIS 2.0 Team.David Madigan recently posted this opening for . This is an exciting opportunity to take a leadership role in this new initiative within the OHDSI community.The to explore the natural history of prostate cancer in a large dataset of patient from across the globe will be held March 8-12. Drug Safety invite the submission of original research article (up to 6000 words) on the Role of Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning in Pharmacovigilance for a themed issue of the journal to be published in 2021. Please submit an abstract describing your proposed paper by April 30to. Full paper will be invited by May 30and manuscript due by August 31. .Save The DatesThe 2021 OHDSI Symposium will be Sept. 12-15, with the main symposium taking place Monday, Sept. 13. We dont know if this will be in-person, hybrid or completely virtual, so there are more detail to come, but please save these dates.Presentation Slides RecordingsCHARYBDIS (Natural Disease History of COVID-19) Kristin KostkaSCYLLA (Comparative Safety and Effectiveness of Treatments under Evaluation for COVID-19) Dani Prieto-AlhambraVaccine Adverse Events of Special Interest Characterization Study George Hripcsak The Feb. 16 OHDSI Community Call focused on the European Health Data & Evidence Network. Topics of focus in the main presentation include: the rationale for the EHDEN project, interaction with OHDSI, overview of the EHDEN project, detail on progress made, objective for year 3, EHDEN Academy, and EHDEN Sustainability OHDSI Shoutouts and Updates Congratulations to the team of Yeonchan Seong, Seng Chan You, Anna Ostropolets, Yeunsook Rho, Jimyung Park, Jaehyeong Cho, Dmitry Dymshyts, Christian G. Reich, Yunjung Heo, and Rae Woong Park for this study: , published in Healthcare Informatics Research. Also, congratulation to the team of Anna Ostropolets, Pierre A. Elias, Michael V. Reyes, Elaine Y. Wan, Utpal B. Pajvani, George Hripcsak, and John P. Morrow for this study: , published in Circulation: Arrhythmia and Electrophysiology. Patrick Ryan brought up a request for any data partner to reach out if they would like to join Anna Ostropolets, Xintong Li, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, George Hripcsak, Talita Duarte-Salles and others in our OHDSI network study to characterize incidence rate of adverse event of special interest for COVID-19 vaccines. Our first study package is available here: . The second study package, that examines sensitivity of design decisions, will be posted shortly. The to explore the natural history of prostate cancer in a large dataset of patient from across the globe will be held March 8-12. Want to get started in our Microsoft Teams environment? Fill out , and then ! SAVE THE DATES The 2021 OHDSI Symposium will be Sept. 12-15, with the main symposium taking place Monday, Sept. 13. We dont know if this will be in-person, hybrid or completely virtual, so there are more detail to come, but please save these dates. Presentation Slides Recordings EHDEN Overview (Peter Rijnbeek & Nigel Hughes) The Feb. 9 OHDSI Community Call focused on getting newcomer started on their own OHDSI journey. The various presentation and slide are available below.OHDSI Shoutouts and UpdatesCongratulations to the team of Edward Burn, Cristian Teb, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Maria Aragon, Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Albert Prats-Uribe, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra & Talita Duarte-Salles for this study: , published in Nature Communications.Congratulations also go out to the team of Jenna Reps, Peter Rijnbeek, Alana Cuthbert, Patrick Ryan, Nicole Pratt and Martijn Schuemie for this study: , published in BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making.Finally, were happy to recognize the work of Vaclav Papez,Maxim Moinat,Stefan Payralbe,Folkert W Asselbergs,R Thomas Lumbers,Harry Hemingway, andRichard Dobson,Spiros Denaxas for this recent study: , published in JAMIA Open.Gowtham Rao shared asking for feedback from a recent brainstorming session for the OHDSI Phenotype Library group. He discussed it a bit during the call, but there is a link to provide feedback on the post.Please be aware of these two upcoming deadlines:Deadline for abstract for ICPE 2021 is THIS FRIDAY, February 12, while scholarship application are accepted until March 1. .Drug Safety invite the submission of original research article (up to 6000 words) on the Role of Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning in Pharmacovigilance for a themed issue of the journal to be published in 2021. Please submit an abstract describing your proposed paper by April 30 to. Full paper will be invited by May 30and manuscript due by August 31. .Want to get started in our Microsoft Teams environment? Fill out , and then !SAVE THE DATESThe 2021 OHDSI Symposium will be Sept. 12-15, with the main symposium taking place Monday, Sept. 13. We dont know if this will be in-person, hybrid or completely virtual, so there are more detail to come, but please save these dates.Presentation Slides OHDSI Overview () ()RecordingsOHDSI Overview (Patrick Ryan)How To Get Started/OHDSI.org Tour (Craig Sachson)OHDSI Microsoft Teams Tour (Patrick Ryan)Panel Comments (Sarah Seager, Greg Klebanov, Mui Van Zandt, Andrew Williams), Q&A Session, Next Steps The Feb. 2 OHDSI Community Call featured presentation by Christopher Knoll and Martin Lavallee on Open-Source Tools For Cohort Definition. Videos of both presentation will be posted below.OHDSI Shoutouts and Updates Congratulations to the team of Christian Maier, Lorenz A. Kapsner, Sebastian Mate, Hans-Ulrich Prokosch, and Stefan Kraus for this study: , published in Applied Clinical Informatics. Two upcoming study were discussed briefly prior to our main presentations. Kees van Bochove discussed the upcoming PIONEER/EHDEN/OHDSI study-a-thon to . You can register for the event, scheduled for March 8-12, . Patrick Ryan introduced the new . Sarah Seager recently posted a job opening for an OMOP Data Scientist at IQVIA. . Both Christian Reich and Dani Prieto-Alhambra will present a talk entitled Global Collaboration: COVID-19 research in open data network this Thursday at 11 am ET through IQVIA. You can . Deadline for abstract for ICPE 2021 is February 12, while scholarship application are accepted until March 1. . Drug Safety invite the submission of original research article (up to 6000 words) on the Role of Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning in Pharmacovigilance for a themed issue of the journal to be published in 2021. Please submit an abstract describing your proposed paper by April 30 to. Full paper will be invited by May 30and manuscript due by August 31. .Next Week Our focus next week will be on helping newcomer start their journey. We want to include a Q&A session that answer some of the most pressing question for our newest collaborators. You can help .PresentationsChristopher Knoll:ATLAS 2.8 Release OverviewMartin Lavallee: Introducing CAPRR Package A Programmatic Approach to Cohort Design The Jan. 26 OHDSI Community Call featured update from four working groups: Common Data Model, Data Quality, Patient-Level Prediction/Population Level Estimation, and HADES. All four presentation recording are posted below.OHDSI Shoutouts and UpdatesCongratulations to Martijn Schuemie, lead author of this recent study in Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology.Also, congratulation to both Kristin Kostka and Andrew Williams, co-authors on the preprint in MedRxiv. N3C us the OMOP CDM to standardize the largest COVID-19 cohort in the United States.A new OHDSI Asia-Pacific (APAC) Community Call will be held every two weeks, starting Wednesday, Jan. 27th at 10 PM EST (Jan 28th at noon Korean Standard Time). , but look for more update about a new APAC channel on the Teams environment.Both Christian Reich and Dani Prieto-Alhambra will present a talk entitled Global Collaboration: COVID-19 research in open data network on Feb. 4 at 11 am ET through IQVIA. You can.Deadline for abstract for ICPE 2021 isFebruary 12, while scholarship application are accepted untilMarch 1..Drug Safety invite the submission of original research article (up to 6000 words) on the Role of Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning in Pharmacovigilance for a themed issue of the journal to be published in 2021. Please submit an abstract describing your proposed paper byApril 30to. Full paper will be invited byMay 30and manuscript due byAugust 31..CDM Workgroup Update (Christian Reich)Data Quality Workgroup Update (Clair Blacketer)PLP/PLE Workgroup Update (Marc Suchard)HADES Workgroup Update (Martijn Schuemie) The Jan. 19 OHDSI Community Call featured three breakout sessions, focused on: 1) Establishing convention for expanded use case of the OMOP CDM (moderated by Sonia Araujo); 2) Methods research opportunity in patient-level prediction (moderated by Jenna Reps and Peter Rijnbeek); and 3) Phenotype development and evaluation (moderated by Juan Banda and Gowtham Rao). Videos of each breakout will be posted shortly.Shoutouts and update from the week:Congratulations to Elena Roel, Talita Duarte-Salles and the entire CHARYBDIS team on this latest preprint,. The team is seeking community feedback, so please read it and offer your insights.Talita also authored a chapter on the SIDIAP database in this new book,. Great work by our 2020 Titan Award recipient for Community Collaboration!The EHDEN Consortium recently released a new tool,, an R Package to support quality control inspection of an OMOP-CDM instance. Congrats to everybody involved in this work!The EHDEN Academy launched two new course in late December, . Learn more about the , or join u for our Feb. 16 call, which will be focused on .If you want to become more involved in EHDEN work (or you know somebody who could be interested), there is a software developer position open on Peter Rijnbeeks team. Learn more.Breakout Session VideosEstablishing convention for expanded use case of the OMOP CDM (Moderator: Sonia Araujo)Methods research opportunity in patient-level prediction (Moderators: Jenna Reps and Peter Rijnbeek)Phenotype development and evaluation (Moderators: Juan Banda and Gowtham Rao) The first OHDSI community call of 2021 wa led by Patrick Ryan, who discussed setting objective and key result in an effort to better align the community towards targeted goal in 2021. The full video presentation is below the shoutout links, while the associated slide .Shoutouts From This Week: Four paper associated with our community were highlighted in our new Weekly Shoutouts. They are below:Also, George Hripcsak thanked the community for input on the FDA protocol and noted how appreciative the FDA wa about our efforts, and Kees van Bochove shared about an upcoming effort to study the natural disease history of prostate cancer. Look for more information to come about that effort! 2024 powered by Top | | | Past Events Past Events 2023 Global Symposium (Oct. 20-22) Asia-Pacific Symposium (July 13-14) Europe Symposium (July 1-3) SOS Challenge (Mar. 28-May 23) DevCon (April 21) Phenotype Phebruary 2022 Global Symposium (Oct. 14-16) Asia-Pacific Symposium (Nov. 12-13) European Symposium (June 24-26) DevCon (April 24) 2021 Global Symposium (Sept. 12-15) 2020 Global Symposium (Oct. 18-21) Asia-Pacific Symposium (Dec. 5-6) COVID-19 Study-A-Thon (March 26-29) Barcelona Study-A-Thon (Jan. 18-21) 2019 U.S. Symposium (Sept. 16) (Recap/Photos/Videos/Tutorials/Women of OHDSI Leadership Forum) Symposium Tutorials (Sept. 15, 17) China Symposium (June 27-29) European Symposium (March 29-30) OHDSI China Huzhou OMOP Tutorial (Nov. 8) Tutorial Materials:;; OHDSI Korea OMOP Tutorial (Oct. 23) First OHDSI Tutorial ever held in Korea, it included more than 80 clinician and researcher OHDSI China Guangzhou OMOP Tutorial (Oct. 16-17) Materials:; China XiAn Hack-A-Thon (June 22-23) Cleveland Face-To-Face (June 3-4) 2018 U.S. Symposium (Oct. 12) Symposium Tutorials (Oct. 11, 13) China Symposium Chinese Hack-a-thon Annual Face-to-face European Symposium Video Video Video 2017 Symposium Tutorials China Working Group F2F Hadoop Hack-a-thon OHDSI Face-to-face OHDSI in Korea 2016 Symposium Tutorials 2015 Symposium OMOP Symposia 2013 2012 2011 2009 2024 powered by Top | | | DevCon 2024 Brought Together Open-Source Community, Envisioned Potential, Possibilities of OHDSI Software The third annual OHDSI DevCon wa held April 26, and it served a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software.The first session included a series of lightning talk from a developer panel, a well a a series of development update from the DARWIN EU initiative. The second session agenda included a series of update on the OHDSI open-source ecosystem, a well a presentation around a tool for machine learning for healthcare data mapping and management, and knowledge graph using two tool with example application in drug surveillance and computational phenotyping. DevCon co-lead Paul Nagy announced that are now open and will be accepted through June 1. The program is designed to onboard new contributor into OHDSI to empower them to become active contributor and maintainers. The goal are to: 1) provide career development including training opportunity within the cohort from OHDSI technical leaders, a well a mentoring from OHDSI leadership 2) create a global perspective of the ecosystem; 3) build cross-connections between projects; and 4) develop future leader for OHDSI.All DevCon 2024 presentation are available via the link below. DevCon 2024 Agenda Morning9:00 am-9:15 am ET: (Adam Black and Paul Nagy)9:15 am-10:45 am ET: (Katy Sadowski)OHDSI/OMOP The hard way is the easy way! (Vishnu V Chandrabalan MD FRCS)Moving OMOP to the Cloud With DBT and Snowflake (Roger Carlson)Use case for ORMs in OMOP (Georgina Kennedy)Carrot: code-free OMOP ETL without full data access (Sam Cox)Rabbit-in-a-blender an ETL pipeline to transform your EMR data into OMOP (Pieter-janLammertyn)10:45 am-12 pm ET: CDMConnector (Adam Black)PatientProfiles (Mike Du)CohortCharacteristics (Mart Catal Sabat)CohortSurvival (Kim Lpez Gell)12 pm ET: BreakAfternoon12:30 pm-1:15 pm ET: Techology Advisory Board(Frank DeFalco)Strategus Update(Anthony Sena)Broadsea Update(Lee Evans)Kheiron Training Program Update (Paul Nagy)1:15 pm-2:00 pm ET: (Denys Kaduk)2:00 pm-3:00 pm ET: and OMOP2OBO with Example Applications in Drug Surveillance and Computational Phenotyping (Tiffany Callahan) 2024 powered by Top | | | Phenotype Phebruary 2024 Now in it third year, Phenotype Phebruary is a community-wide initiative to advance the field of phenotyping in observational studies. This past Phenotype Phebruary focusedon assessing consistency in phenotype definition components, phenotype representation structure, and phenotype validation methods.The month-long activity empowered OHDSI collaborator to engage with each other while advancing the science of phenotyping and gaining education and training around phenotype development and evaluation.Community member voted to focus effort on four specific phenotypes: Alzheimers Disease, lung cancer, major depression disorder, and pulmonary hypertension. Under the leadership of Azza Shoaibi, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao and James Weaver, a team of 40+ collaborator worked on systematic literature search and synthesis, replication using ATLAS and other OHDSI tools, and summarization of variation in population characteristic like incidence rates. Phenotype Phebruary Closing Presentation By the end of the month, collaborator identified and reviewed 93 clinical studies, developed an ATLAS and CohortDiagnostics demo, built and publicly shared 30 cohort definitions, and created three shiny apps with full cohort diagnostics on . The team also put together 8,784 incidence rate and continues work within the forum posted linked below and call within the Phenotype Development & Evaluation workgroup.The OHDSI community engaged in Phenotype Phebruary in both and , and you can learn more about those activity by visiting their respective homepages. Videos - Phenotype Phebruary Updates and Discussions Playlist 9 Videos 0:16 0:16 0:16 0:16 0:16 0:16 0:16 0:16 0:16 2024 powered by Top | | | 2023 OHDSI Symposium Oct. 20-22 East Brunswick, New Jersey The 2023 OHDSI Global Symposium welcomed more than 440 of our global collaborator together for three day of sharing research, forging new connection and pushing forward together the OHDSI mission of improving health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care.This page will be home to all material from the global symposium. Check back in the coming day for all video presentation from the event! #JoinTheJourney #OHDSI2023 State of the Community Various leader within OHDSI shared a presentation on the state of the community, with specific focus on data standards, vocabulary enhancement and open-source development. Speakers included:George Hripcsak, Columbia UniversityClair Blacketer, Johnson & JohnsonAlexander Davydov, Odysseus Data ServicesKaty Sadowski, Boehringer IngelheimPeter Rijnbeek, Erasmus MCMengling Mornin Feng, National University of Singapore Plenary: Improving the reliability and scale of case validation Case validation is regarded a a necessary element of regulatory-grade evidence, but conducting case validation through human adjudication of source record is time- and resource-intensive, ha unknown performance, and is frequently conducted in such a way that doe not enable either full caseset review or proper quantitative bias analysis. In this plenary, OHDSI collaborator presented innovative methodological research and open-source development to improve the reliability and scalability of the case validation process, demonstrating that it may be possible to replace source record through an informatics-enhanced patient profile of structured data from the OMOP CDM (KEEPER), and to supplement human review through the use of large language model to estimate measurement error and identify differential misclassification. KEEPER + LLM wa empirically evaluated in 10 disease across 3 experiment in 2 different data sources, and revealed that there can be substantial heterogeneity in agreement between human reviewer but that LLMs agree with human a much a human agree with each other. Speakers included: Patrick Ryan, Johnson & Johnson, Columbia University; Anna Ostropolets, Odysseus Data Service; and Martijn Schuemie, Johnson & Johnson, University of California, Los Angeles Panel: Lessons learned from OHDSI network study Network study are challenging, but they are provide a critical opportunity to generate robust, reliable real-world evidence. Leaders from recent OHDSI network study share insights, challenge and possible solution from recent network studies, including from the SOS Challenge. Speakers included:Marc Suchard, University of California-Los AngelesCindy Cai, Johns Hopkins UniversitySeng Chan You, Yonsei UniversityAnthony Sena, Johnson & JohnsonModerator: Sarah Seager, IQVIA Collaborator Showcase Lightning Talks There were more than 170 submission for the 2023 Collaborator Showcase, and 10 poster were selected to present lightning talk during Fridays portion of the symposium. Session I1) Mapping of Critical Care EHR Flowsheet data to the OMOP CDM via SSSOM Polina Talapova, SciForce2) Paving the way to estimate daily dose in OMOP CDM for Drug Utilisation Studies in DARWIN EU Theresa Burkard, University of Oxford3) Generating Synthetic Electronic Health Records in OMOP using GPT Chao Pang, Columbia University4) Comparing concept extracted from clinical Dutch text to condition in the structured data Tom Seinen, Erasmus MC5) Finding a constrained number of predictor phenotype for multiple outcome prediction Jenna Reps, Johnson & JohnsonModerator: Davera Gabriel, Johns Hopkins University Session II1) Synthesizing Evidence for Rare Events: a Novel Zero-Inflated Bivariate Model to Integrate Studies with Double-Zero Outcomes Lu Li, University of Pennsylvania2) Active Safety Surveillance Using Real-world Evidence (ASSURE): An application of the Strategus package Kevin Haynes, Johnson & Johnson3) Patients outcome after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopan creatography (ERCP) using reprocessed duodenoscope accessories: a descriptive study using real-world data Jessica Maruyama, Precision Data4) Does COVID-19 Increase Racial/Ethnic Differences in Prevalence of Post-acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) in Children and Adolescents? An EHR-Based Cohort from the RECOVER Program Bingyu Zhang, University of Pennsylvania5) Eye Care and Vision Research Workgroup: First Year Update Michelle Hribar, National Institutes of Health National Eye InstituteModerator: Atif Adam, IQVIA Collaborator Showcase Posters & Software Demos We received a record number of submission for the 2023 Collaborator Showcase, following detailed review by community volunteer in the Scientific Review Committee, there were 137 poster and 24 software demo that were presented during the collaborator showcase.Please visit the link below to visit the posters, brief report and other supplementary material for each showcase submission. Each submission will be profiled in the #OHDSISocialShowcase, so please make sure you follow OHDSI on , and . Tutorial: Introduction to OHDSI The journey from data to evidence can be challenging alone but is greatly enabled through community collaboration. In this half-day tutorial, we will introduce newcomer to OHDSI. Specifically, about the tools, practices, and open-science approach to evidence generation that the OHDSI community ha developed and evolved over the past decade.Faculty will highlight the way community individual can participate a well a receive value from the community outputs. The course will include topic such a open community data standard including the OMOP Common Data Model and OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies, opensource analytic tool including HADES and ATLAS, and the conduct of open network study for methodological research and clinical applications.AGENDA8:00-8:15 Introduction to OHDSI8:15-9:00 Data Standardization9:00-9:45 Methodologic Research 10:00-10:15 Break10:15-11:00 Open-Source Development11:00-11:45 Clinical Evidence Generation11:45-12:00 Conclusion and Next Steps Closing & Titan Awards The closing of Day 1 of the OHDSI Global Symposium turned into an experiment in large-scale collaboration in the form of a massive escape room inside the Hilton East Brunswick Hotel & Executive Meeting Center! Check back later for a video recap of this fun and interactive activity!Prior to the closing talk, the 2023 Titan Award winner were announced. Congratulations to our honorees, who were both nominated and selected by peer in the community:Data Standards:Gowtham RaoandAzza ShoaibiMethodological Research:Jiayi (Jessie) TongOpen-Source Development:Katy SadowskiClinical Applications:Center for Surgical ScienceCommunity Leadership:Nicole PrattCommunity Collaboration:Cynthia SungCommunity Support:Gyeol Song 2024 powered by Top | | | 2023 Global Collaborator Showcase 2023 Global Collaborator Showcase Observational Data Standards & Management 2 (Javier Gracia-Tabuenca, Perttu Koskenvesa, Pia Tajanen, Sampo Kukkurainen, Gustav Klingstedt, Anna Hammais, Persephone Doupi, Oscar Bruck, Leena Hakkarainen, Annu Kaila, Marco Hautalahti, Toni Mikkola, Marianna Niemi, Pasi Rikala, Simo Ryhnen, Anna Virtanen, Arto Mannermaa, Arto Vuori, Joanne Demmler, Eric Fey, Terhi Kilpi, Arho Virkki, Tarja Laitinen, Kimmo Porkka) 3 (Wesley Anderson, Ruth Kurtycz, Tahsin Farid, Shermarke Hassan, Kalynn Kennon, Pam Dasher, Danielle Boyce, Will Roddy, Smith F. Heavner) 4 (Stephanie Hong, Thomas Richards, Benjamin Amor, Tim Schwab, Philip Sparks, Maya Choudhury, Saad Ljazouli, Peter Leese, Amin Manna, Christophe Roeder, Tanner Zhang, Lisa Eskenazi, Bryan Laraway, James Cavallon, Eric Kim, Shijia Zhang, Emir Amaro Syailendra, Shawn ONeil, Davera Gabriel, Sigfried Gold, Tricia Francis, Andrew Girvin, Emily Pfaff, Anita Walden, Harold Lehmann, Melissa Haendel, Ken Gersing, Christopher G Chute) * Best Community Contribution Honoree 5 (Edward A. Frankenberger, Chun Yang, Vamsidhar Reddy Meda Venkata, Alyssa Goodson) 6 (Woo Yeon Park, Kyulee Jeon, Teri Sippel Schmidt, Haridimos Kondylakis, Seng Chan You, Paul Nagy) 7 (Zachary Wang, Will Kelly, Paul Nagy, Christopher A Mecoli) 8 (Justin C. Quon, William Halfpenny, Cindy X. Cai, Sally L. Baxter, Brian C. Toy) 9 (Frank DeFalco, Clair Blacketer) 10 (Mujeeb A Basit, Mereeja Varghese, Aamirah Vadsariya, Bhavini Nayee, Margaret Langley, Ashley Huynh, Jennifer Cai, Donglu Xie, Cindy Kao, Eric Nguyen, Todd Boutte, Shiby Antony, Tammye Garrett, Christoph U Lehmann, Duwayne L Willett) 11 (Maksym Trofymenko, Polina Talapova, Tetiana Nesmiian, Andrew Williams, Denys Kaduk, Max Ved, Inna Ageeva) 12 (Maria Abrahao, Uri Adrian Prync Flato, Mateus de Lima Freitas, Diogo Patro, Amanda Gomes Rabelo, Cesar Augusto Madid Truyts, Gabriela Chiuffa Tunes, Etienne Duin, Gabriel Mesquita de Souza, Soraya Yukari Aashiro, Adriano Jos Pereira, Edson Amaro) 13 (Dmitry Dymshyts, Clair Blacketer) 14 (John Methot, Sherry Lee) 15 (Dong Yun Lee, Chungsoo Kim, Rae Woong Park) 16 (Jessica Mayumi Maruyama, Julio Cesar Barbour Oliveira) 17 (Tatjana Jatsenko, Murat Akand, Joris Robert Vermeesch, Dries Rombaut, Michel Van Speybroeck, Martine Lewi , Valerie Vandeweerd) 18 (Dian Tri Wiyanti, Daniel C.A. Nugroho, Yudha Eri Saputra, Septi Melisa, Phan Thanh-Phuc, Nguyen Phung-Anh, Jason C. Hsu, Min-Huei Hsu) 19 (Kyle Zollo-Venecek, Robert Miller, William G. Adams, Jay Greenfield, Timothy B Norris, Polina Talapova, Maksym Trofymenko, Andrew Williams) 20 (Quinta Ashcroft, Timothy Howcroft, Dale Kirkwood, Jo Knight, Vishnu V Chandrabalan) 21 (Danielle Boyce, Colin Bruce Josephson, Ray Jiang, Samuel Wiebe) 22 (Sofia Bazakou, Anna van Winzum, Maxim Moinat) 23 (Andries Clinckaert, Valerie Vandeweerd, Murat Akand, Charlotte De Vlieghere, Bart Vannieuwenhuyse, Michel Van Speybroek, Frank Van der Aa, Martine Lewi, Christos Chatzichristos) 24 (Denys Kaduk, Marta Vikhrak, Polina Talapova, Eduard Korchmar, Inna Ageeva , Max Ved) 25 (Melanie Philofsky) 26 (Emir Amaro Syailendra, Woo Yeon Park, Ben Hamlin, Paul Nagy) 27 (Yuanyi Pan, Warren Manuel, Rashmie Abeysinghe, Xubing Hao, Alexander Davydov, Qi Yang, Asiyah Yu Lin, Licong Cui, Yongqun Oliver He) 28 (Ben Smith, Trent Peterson, Jessica Manzyuk) 29 (Oleg Zhuk, Anna Ostropolets, Alexander Davydov, Christian Reich) 30 (Theresa Burkard, Artem Gorbachev, Kim Lopez-Guell, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Mart Catal, Christian Reich) 31 (Alicia Abellan, Edward Burn, Nhung Trinh, Theresa Burkard, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Eimir Hurley, Clara Rodriguez, Elena Segundo, Daniel R. Morales, Hedvig Nordeng, Talita Duarte-Salles) 32 (Victor M. Castro, Danielle M. Crookes, Vivian Gainer, Shawn N. Murphy, Justin Manjourides) 33 (Michael Gurley, Kyle Zollo-Venecek, Andrew Williams, Daniel Smith, Robert Miller, Vipina Kuttichi Keloth, Hua Xu) 34 (Vojtech Huser, Esteve Verdura, Michael Lubke, Bhavna Adhin) 35 (Gyubeom Hwang, Min-Gyu Kim, Min Ho An, Rae Woong Park) 36 (Andrew S. Kanter) 37 (Min-Gyu Kim, Min ho An, GyuBeom Hwang, Rae Woong Park) 38 (Suhyun Kim, Seung Shin Park, Seung hun Lee, Kwangsoo Kim, JungHee Kim) 39 (Robert Koski, Gopikrishnan Chandrasekharan, William D. Duncan) 40 (Shijia Zhang, Woo Yeon Park, Blake Dewey, Paul Nagy) 41 (Ben Smith, Trent Peterson, Jessica Manzyuk) 42 (Adam Bouras, Davera Gabriel) 43 (Maya Younoszai, Pam Dasher, Danielle Boyce, Smith Heavner) Methodological Research 101 (Nripendra Acharya, Karthik Natarajan) 102 (Juan M. Banda, Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Evan Minty, Christophe Lambert, Joel Swerdel, Christian Reich, George Hripcsak, Patrick Ryan) 103 (Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco) 104 (Clair Blacketer, Patrick Ryan, Frank DeFalco, Martijn Schuemie, Peter Rijnbeek) 105 (Tal El-Hay, Jenna M Reps, Chen Yanover) 106 (Yilu Fang, Chunhua Weng, Patrick Ryan) 107 (Kelly Li, Jenna Reps, Marc Suchard) 108 (Rupa Makadia, Christopher Knoll, Patrick Ryan) 109 (Martijn Schuemie, Marc A. Suchard, Akihiko Nishimura, Linying Zhang, George Hripcsak) 110 (Martijn Schuemie, Yong Chen, Egill Fridgeirsson, Chungsoo Kim, Jenna Reps, Marc Suchard, Xiaoyu Wang, Chao Pang) 111 (Louisa H. Smith, Fan Bu, Akihiko Nishimura, Kristin Kostka, Jody-Ann McLeggon, Patrick B. Ryan, George Hripcsak, David Madigan, Marc A. Suchard) 112 (Joel Swerdel, Dmytro Dymshyts) 113 (Cynthia Yang, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Jan A. Kors, Jenna M. Reps, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Ross D. Williams, Jenna Wong) 114 (William A. Baumgartner Jr., Tyler Strickland, Danielle M. Kline, Abby M. Pribish, Molly McCallum, Amanuail Gebregzabheir, Dani Loeb, Lisa M. Schilling) 115 (Ruth Kurtycz, Wesley Anderson, Allan J. Walkey, Kerry A. Howard, Smith F. Heavner) 116 (Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Dmytro Dymshyts, Anna Ostropolets, Patrick Ryan) 117 (Rupa Makadia, Jill Hardin, Kevin Haynes, Dave Kern, Amir Sarayani, Melanie Jacobson) 118 (Lina Sulieman, Karthik Natarajan) 119 (Naimin Jing, Xiaokang Liu, Qiong Wu, Suchitra Rao, Asuncion Mejias, Mitchell Maltenfort, Julia Schuchard, Vitaly Lorman, Hanieh Razzaghi, Ryan Webb, Chuan Zhou, Ravi Jhaveri, Grace M. Lee, Nathan M. Pajor, Deepika Thacker, L. Charles Bailey, Christopher B. Forrest, and Yong Chen) 120 (Min Ho An, Min-Gyu Kim, GyuBeom Hwang, ByungJin Choi, Rae Woong Park) 121 (Michael Jackson, Saurabh Gombar, Raj Manickam, Robert Brown, Ramya Tekumalla, Yen Low) 122 (Yiwen Lu, Jiayi Tong, Rebecca A Hubbard, Yong Chen) 123 (Nag Mani, Xiwen Huang, Li Tao, Hu Li) 124 (Evan Minty, Jack Janetzki, James P. Gilbert, Jung Ho Kim, Jung Ah Lee, Elsie Ross, Nicole Pratt, Gowtham Rao, Seng Chan You) 125 (Jason Patterson) 126 (Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Ross D. Williams, Peter Rijnbeek, Marc Suchard, Jenna Reps) 127 (James Weaver, Erica A Voss, Guy Cafri, Kathleen Beyrau, Michelle Nashleanas, Robert Suruki) 128 (LH John, EA Fridgeirsson, JA Kors, JM Reps, PR Rijnbeek) 129 (Aniek F. Markus, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Ross D. Williams) 130 (Jiayi Tong, Chongliang Luo, Yifei Sun, Rui Duan, M. Elle Saine, Lifeng Lin, Yifan Peng, Yiwen Lu, Anchita Batra, Anni Pan, Olivia Wang, Ruowang Li, Arielle Anglin, Yuchen Yang, Xu Zuo, Yulun Liu, Jiang Bian, Stephen E. Kimmel, Keith Hamilton, Adam Cuker, Rebecca A. Hubbard, Hua Xu, Yong Chen) 131 (Ross D. Williams, Solomon Ioannou, Evan Minty, Jenna M. Reps) 133 (Xiaoyu Wang, Jenna Reps, Anthony Sena, James P. Gilbert, Marc A Suchard) Open-Source Analytics Development 201 (Jared Houghtaling, Kyrylo Simonov, Kyle Zollo-Venecek, Elina Hadelia, Manlik Kwong, Polina Talapova, Clark Evans, Robert Miller, Andrew E. Williams) 202 (Kristin Kostka, David Madigan, Christian Reich, Asieh Golozar, Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Daniel Pitch, Justin Manjourides, Aleksei Gorodetskii, Deepa Reddy, Juan Carlos amendi Pineda, Osmar Benevidez, Konstantin Yaroshovets, Peter Berzin, Gregory Klebanov) 203 (Anthony G. Sena, Jenna Reps, Chungsoo Kim, Jack Brewster, Adam Black, Linying Zhang, Michael Cook, Phan Thanh Phuc, Scott L. DuVall, Marc A. Suchard) 204 (Selvin Soby, Pavel Goriacko, Jimmy John, Pavan Parimi, Erin M. Henninger, Parsa Mirhaji) 205 (Benjamin Viernes, Marc A. Suchard, Patrick R. Alba, Katherine R. Simon, Michael E. Matheny, Scott L. DuVall) 206 (Gowtham Rao) 207 (Sigfried Gold, Harold P Lehmann, Lisa Eskenazi, Xiaohan Tanner Zhang, Stephanie Hong, Richard L. Zhu, Christopher G. Chute) 209 (Janos Hajagos) 210 (Jimmy John, Parsa Mirhaji, Surbhi Obeja, Boudewijn Aasman, Nina Bickell, Bruce Rapkin, Erin M. Henninger, Pavel Goriacko, Selvin Soby) 211 (Hannah Morgan-Cooper, Adam Black, Behzad Naderalvojoud, Evan Minty, Priya Desai) 212 (Hayden Spence) 213 (Jacob Zelko, Varshini Chinta, Malina Hy, Fareeda Abdelazeez) 214 (Alison Callahan, Stephanie Leonard, Louisa Smith) 216 (John Gresh, Brad Rechkemmer) 217 (Ben Martin, Cindy Cai, Asieh Golozar, Paul Nagy) 218 (Craig C. Teerlink, Hamid Saoudian, Richard Boyce, Philip S. Tsao, Michael E. Matheny, Marc A. Suchard, Kyle M. Hernandez, Robert Grossman, Scott L. DuVall) Clinical Applications 301 (Kyungseon Choi, Sang Jun Park, Hyuna Yoon, Hae Sun Suh) 302 (Priya Desai, Alison Callahan, Juan M. Banda, Nikesh Kotecha, Shreya Shah, Somalee Datta) 303 (Elise Ruan, Karthik Natarajan, Ruijun Chen, Jungmi Han, Mark Velez, Taha Abdul-Basser, Edwin M. Cruz, Cindy Hsin-Yi Chen, Patrick Ryan, George Hripcsak) 304 (Amir Sarayani, Jill Hardin, Melanie Jacobson, Rupa Makadia, Joel Swerdel, Kevin Haynes, David Kern) 305 (Dachung Boo, Seungjin Baek, Namki Hong, Yumie Rhee, Seng Chan You) 306 (Cindy X. Cai, Mary Grace Bowring Diep Tran, Paul Nagy, Michael Cook, Akihiko Nishimura, Jia Ng, Marc A. Suchard, Scott L. DuVall, Michael Matheny, Asieh Golozar, Anna Ostropolets, Evan Minty, Fan Bu, Brian Toy, Will Halfpenny, Michelle Hribar, Jody-Ann McLeggon, Thomas Falconer, Linying Zhang, Laurence Lawrence-Archer, George Hripcsak) 307 (Tamar Zelovich, Vered Klaitman-Mayer, Chen Yanover) 308 (Natalie Flaks-Manov, Inbal Goldshtein, Chen Yanover) 309 (Asieh Golozar, Albert Prats Uribe, Tom Seinen, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, Peter Rijnbeek, Christian Reich) 310 (Jill Hardin, Alexis Krumme, David Kern, James Weaver, Clair Blacketer) 311 (Su Min Kim, Ju-Hyeon Kim, Yunjin Yum, Eunbeen Jo, Jose Moon, Jong-Ho Kim, Yong Hyun Kim, Eung Ju Kim, Hyung Joon Joo) 312 (Robert Koski, Danielle Boyce, Brock Johnson, Adam Bouras, Swetha Kiranmayi Jakkuva) 313 (Seonji Kim, Kyung Joo Lee, Seng Chan You, Seung In Seo) 314 (Praveen Kumar, Christophe G. Lambert) 315 (Haeun Lee, Seok Kim, Hui-Woun Moon, Se Young Jung, Ho-Young Lee, Sooyoung Yoo) 316 (Stephanie A. Leonard, Louisa H. Smith, Sara Siadat, Karthik Natarajan, Brian T. Bateman, Thomas Falconer, John DiPalazzo, Alison Callahan) 317 (Star Liu, Tony Widenor, Danielle Boyce, Gowtham Rao, Evan Minty, Khyzer Aziz) 318 (Xiaokang Liu, Yishan Shen, Naimin Jing, Christopher B. Forrest, Yong Chen) 319 (Guy Livne, Keren Rosenstein, Atif Adam, Milou Brand, Nikolai Grewe, Ludovica Ancora, Nathan Japhet) 320 (Valentina Martufi, Renzo Flores-Ortiz, Priscilla Normando, Vinicius A. Oliveira, Maria Yury Ichihara, Mauricio L. Barreto, Elzo P. P. Jnior) 321 (Craig Mayer) 322 (Septi Melisa, Christianus Heru Setiawan, Daniel C.A. Nugroho, Muhammad Solihuddin Muhtar, Dian Tri Wiyanti, Phan Thanh-Phuc, Nguyen Phung-Anh, Jason C. Hsu) 323 (Aurora Quaye, Janelle Richard, Henry Stoddard, Robert Krulee, Blaire Beers-Mulroy, Kristin Kostka, John DiPalazzo) 324 (Chelsea N Wong, Louisa H Smith, Robert Cavanaugh, Brianne Olivieri-Mui) 325 (Chen Yanover, Ramit Magen-Rimon, Erica Voss, Joel Swerdel, Anna Sheahan, Nathan Hall, Jimyung Park, Rae Woong Park, Kwang Jae Lee, Sung Jae Shin, Seung In Seo, Kyung-Joo Lee, Thomas Falconer, Leonard Haas, Paul Nagy, Mary Bowring, Michael Cook, Steven Miller, Tal El-Hay, Maytal Bivas-Benita, Pinchas Akiva, Yehuda Chowers, Roni Weisshof) 326 (Chen Yanover, Louisa Smith, Tal El-Hay, Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Maytal Bivas-Benita, Robert Cavanaugh, Pinchas Akiva, Chelsea N. Wong, Ariela Orkaby) 327 (Gowtham A. Rao, Azza Shoaibi) 328 (Hyuna Yoon, Kyungseon Choi, Sang Youl Rhee, Hae Sun Suh) 329 (Jack L. Janetzki, Jung Ho Kim, Jung Ah Lee, Seng Chan You, Nicole L. Pratt) 330 (Danielle Boyce, Robert Koski, Brock Johnson) 331 (Justin Manjourides, Kristin Kostka, Christian Reich, Asieh Golozar) 332 (Pavel Goriacko, Parsa Mirhaji, Jimmy John, Pavan Parimi, Erin M. Henninger, Daniel Beiter, Rakin Islam, Daniel Chernovolenko, Selvin Soby) 333 (Delia Harms, Kristin Kostka) 334 (Ben Martin, Mary Grace Bowring, Paul Nagy) 335 (Qiong Wu, Jiayi Tong, Bingyu Zhang, Dazheng Zhang, Jie Xu, Yishan Shen, Lu Li, L. Charles Bailey, Jiang Bian, Dimitri A. Christakis, Megan L. Fitzgerald, Kathryn Hirabayashi, Ravi Jhaveri, Alka Khaitan, Tianchen Lyu, Suchitra Rao, Hanieh Razzaghi, Hayden T. Schwenk, Fei Wang, Margot I. Witvliet, Eric J. Tchetgen, Jeffrey S. Morris, Christopher B. Forrest, and Yong Chen) 336 (Nick Williams) 337 (Dazheng Zhang, Jiayi Tong, Xing He, Jiang Bian, Yong Chen) Software Demos 401 (Boudewijn Aasman, Selvin Soby, Sudhakar Veeraraghavan, Erin M. Henninger, Chandra ha Nelapatla, Manuel Wahle, Adil Ahmed, Pavel Goriacko, Parsa Mirhaji) 402 (Justin Bohn, Jamie P. Gilbert, Christopher Knoll, David M. Kern, Patrick B. Ryan ) 403 (Sarah Gasman, William G. Adams) 404 (Frank DeFalco, Mikhail Iontsev, Clair Blacketer) 405 (James P Gilbert, Anthony Sena, Justin Boh, Chris Knoll, David Kern) 406 (Laurence Lawrence-Archer, Vlad Korsik, Varvara Savitskaya, Phani Kishore Davineni, John Methot, Asieh Golozar, Christian Reich) 407 (Cindy Ho, Li Ting Ang, Maisie Ng, Hang Png, Shuen Lin Tan, Estella Ye, Sunil Kumar Raja, Mengling Feng, Johan G Eriksson, Mukkesh Kumar) * Best Community Contribution Honoree 408 (Martin Lavallee, Asieh Golozar) 409 (Andrey Soares, Shahim Essaid, Michael G. Kahn) 410 (Jaan Altosaar Li, Jacob Zelko) 411 (Richard D Boyce, Craig C. Teerlink, Hamid Saoudian, Kyle M. Hernandez, Victoria Zaksas, Pieter Lukasse, Andrew Prokhorenkov, Noah Metoki-Shlubsky, Robert L. Grossman, Scott L. DuVall) 412 (Kim Lopez-Guell, Yuchen Guo, Mike Du, Xintong Li, Ger Inberg, Therese Buckhard, Annika M. Jdicke, Artem Gorbachev, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Edward Burn, Mart Catal) 413 (Yong Chen, Jiayi Tong, Chongliang Luo, Lu Li, Yiwen Lu, Hai-Shuo Shu) 414 (Nathan Hall, Jenna Reps, Jamie Gilbert) 415 (Erin M. Henninger, Selvin Soby, Manuel Wahle, Boudewijn Aasman, Pavel Goriacko, Chandra ha Nelapatla, Reetam Nath, Parsa Mirhaji) 416 (Asieh Golozar, Laurence Lawrence-Archer, Travis Zack, Jeremy L. Warner, Christian Reich) 417 (Jeffrey G. Klann, Griffin M. Weber, Michele Morris, Michael Mendis, Diane Keogh, Shawn N. Murphy) 418 (Gregory Klebanov, Alexey Manoylenko) 419 (Ajit Londhe, Lee Evans, Sanjay Udoshi) 420 (Kim Lpez-Guell, Marti Catal, Danielle Newby, Ian Koblbauer, Xintong Li, Berta Ravents, Maria de Ridder, Talita Duarte-Salles, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, Edward Burn) 421 (Gregory Klebanov, Anna Ostropolets) 422 (Pavan Parimi, Selvin Soby, Pavel Goriacko, Chandra ha Nelapatla, Boudewijn Aasman, Manuel Wahle, Reetam Nath, Parsa Mirhaji) 423 (Jimyung Park, Yilu Fang, Chunhua Weng) 424 (Siwei Zhang, Nick Strayer, Tess Vessels, Karmel Choi, Geoffrey Wang, Yajing Li, Cosmin Bejan, Ryan Hsi, Alexander Bick, Justin Balko, Douglas Johnson, Digna Velez Edwards, Michael Savona, Elizabeth Philips, Dan Roden, Jordan Smoller, Douglas Ruderfer, Yaomin Xu) Lightning Talks 501 (Polina Talapova, Andrew Williams, Nicolas Matentzoglu, Anna Ostropolets, Michael Kallfelz) 502 (Theresa Burkard, Kim Lopez-Guell, Artem Gorbachev, Annika M Jdicke, Nuria Mercad-Besora, Talita Duarte-Salles, Maria de Ridder, Mees Mosseveld, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, Christian Reich, Marti Catala) 503 (Chao Pang, Xinzhuo Jiang, Nishanth Parameshwar Pavinkurve, Krishna S. Kalluri, Elise L. Minto, Karthik Natarajan) * Best Community Contribution Honoree 504 (Tom M. Seinen, Jan A. Kors, Erik M. van Mulligen, Peter R. Rijnbeek) 505 (Jenna M Reps, Jenna Wong, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Chungsoo Kim, Luis H. John, Ross D. Williams, Patrick Ryan) 506 (Lu Li, Lifeng Lin, Haitao Chu, Yong Chen) 507 (Kevin Haynes, Jenna Reps, Justin Bohn, Gowtham Rao, Mitchell Conover, Martijn Schuemie, Anthony Sena, Kourtney Davis, Patrick Ryan) 508 (Jessica Mayumi Maruyama, Eduardo Sleiman Beljavskis, Laila Colaes, Lisandry Aquino, Renata Martins, Sarah Rodrigues, Suellen do Santos, Julio Cesar Barbour Oliveira) * Best Community Contribution Honoree 509 (Dazheng Zhang, Bingyu Zhang, Qiong Wu, Ting Zhou, Jiayi Tong, Yiwen Lu, Jiajie Chen, Deena J. Chisolm, Ravi Jhaveri, Russell L Rothman, Suchitra Rao, David A. Williams, Mady Hornig, Jeffrey S. Morris, Christopher B. Forrest, Yong Chen) 510 (Michelle R. Hribar, Michael Boland, Cindy X. Cai, Kerry E. Goetz, Will Halfpenny, Swarup S. Swaminathan, Brian Toy, Sally L. Baxter) 2024 powered by Top | | | 2023 Europe Symposium The 2023 Europe Symposium, held July 1-3 in Rotterdam, featured the widest breadth of research ever shared at the European event, and it also hosted several plenary talk and national update to show how strong the community continues to grow.The main conference included several talks, including session focused onEuropean Initiatives Using the OMOP CDMandData Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU), a well a 10 lightning talk focused on OHDSI Community Evidence. Videos of all talk will be posted on this homepage when available.The event welcomed a record number of submission to the Collaborator Spotlight, including 45 poster on observational data standard and management, 28 on clinical applications, 11 on method research and five on open-source analytics development. The full list of title and most of the actual poster can be found. A full recap of the event wa shared during the July 11 community call; . Presentations 2023 OHDSI Europe Welcome + Introduction Speaker: Peter Rijnbeek, PhD, Professor of Medical Informatics and Chair of the Department of Medical Informatics at Erasmus MC Journey of OHDSI: Where have we been and where we can go together? Speaker: Patrick Ryan, PhD, Janssen Research and Development, Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University Medical Center European Initiatives Using the OMOP CDM Moderator: Renske Los, PhD, Assistant Professor of Medical Informatics, Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC1. European Health Data and Evidence Network: building a sustainable ecosystem for generating reliable evidence in Europe Speaker: Carlos Diaz, Synapse2. Harmonizing rare cancer data: lesson learned in EURACAN Speaker: Maaike van Swieten, IKNL3. HONEUR: Building a federated network in haematology Speaker: Michel van Speybroeck, Janssen Pharmaceutica4. PIONEER and OPTIMA, two EU-IMI funded big data project led by the European Association of Urology Speaker: Monique Roobol, Professor Decision Making in Urology, Erasmus MC5. Panel Discussion and Q/A Collaborator Showcase: Rapid-Fire Presentations Moderator:Katia Verhamme, MD, Associate Professor of Use and Analysis of Observational Data, Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam0:44 Tools for the collaborative maintenance of national vocabulary and mapping (Speaker: Javier Gracia-Tabuenca)6:09 Implementation of the ARES application to monitor network-wide data quality and mapping coverage for 16 unique OMOP source across Rwanda (Speaker: Jared Houghtaling)12:11 Multi-site Cost-effectiveness and Markov Chain analysis of heart failure (Speaker: Markus Haug)18:41 Deep Learning Comparison (Speaker: Henrik John)24:21 The association of short-, medium and long-term cardiovascular sequela with COVID-19 infection: a multinational pilot study (Speaker: Ian Wong)27:54 Supporting pharmacovigilance signal validation and prioritization with analysis of routinely collected health data lesson learned from an EHDEN network study (Speaker: Judith Brand)35:54 Pattern of long COVID symptom and conditions: clustering analysis based on large multinational cohort a part of an EHDEN Study-A-Thon (Speaker: Marti Catala Sabate)42:36 Evaluation of treatment effect heterogeneity in the LEGEND-Hypertension study (Speaker: Alexandros Rekkas)48:36 Characteristics and outcome of over a million inflammatory bowel disease subject in seven countries: a multinational cohort study (Speaker: Chen Yanover)57:13 Prediction of 30-day, 90-day and 1 year mortality after colorectal cancer surgery using a data-driven approach (Speaker: Ismail Ggenur) Real-World Evidence use in Medicines Regulation Moderator: Dani Prieto-Alhambra, PhD, Professor of Pharmaco- and Device Epidemiology at Oxford University1:20 Development (Speaker: Ed Burn)12:03 Study Operations (Speaker: Katia Verhamme)20:17 The SIDIAP experience a Data Partner in DARWIN EU (Speaker: Talita Duarte-Salles)30:34 Drug utilisation of valproate-containing medicinal product in woman of childbearing age: a network study part of DARWIN EU (Speaker: Albert Prats-Uribe)40:07 Drug utilisation of antibiotic in the Watch category of the WHO AWaRe classification of antibiotic for evaluation and monitoring of use: a network study part of DARWIN EU (Speaker: Johnmary Arinze)47:53 Panel Q&A session Closure Peter Rijnbeek with a little bit of help provides the closing remark for the 2023 OHDSI Europe Symposium. Phenotype Development & Evaluation Workshop Day 1 Faculty: Patrick Ryan, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao, Talita Duarte Salles and Victor Pera Day 2 Faculty: Patrick Ryan, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao, Talita Duarte Salles and Victor Pera 2024 powered by Top | | | 2023 Europe Symposium Collaborator Showcase 2023 Europe Symposium Collaborator Showcase 1 Joo Rafael Almeida, Nigel Hughes, Peter Rijnbeek, Jos Lus Oliveira 2 Joo Rafael Almeida, Jos Lus Oliveira 3 Ameet Jagesar, Martijn Otten, Tariq Dam, Laurens Biesheuvel, Patrick Thoral, Armand Girbes, Harm-Jan de Grooth, Paul Elbers 4 Oleg Zhuk, Anna Ostropolets, Nicolas Matentzoglu, Melissa Haendel, Alexander Davydov, Christian Reich 5 Extract, Transform, and Load of the Infectious Disease CDM for Harmonizing and Accessing Data in Real-time Infectious Disease Surveillance Byungjin Choi, Junhyuk Chang, Soobeen Seol, Seongwon Lee, Rae Woong Park 6 Christian Reich, Alexander Davydov, Anna Ostropolets 7 Elham Taghizadeh, Maxim Moinat 8 Sergey Suvorov, Adam Black, Alexey Manoylenko, Vitaly Koulakov, Konstantin Yaroshovets, Gregory Klebanov 9 Erica A. Voss, Clair Blacketer, Sebastiaan van Sandijk, Maxim Moinat, Michael Kallfelz, Michel Van Speybroeck, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, Martijn J. Schuemie, Peter R Rijnbeek 10 Evangelia Minga, Dimitra Chamou, Thomas Chatzikonstantinou, Pantelis Natsiavas, Kostas Stamatopoulos, Evangelos Handakas, Anastasia Chatzidimitriou 11 Dmitry Dymshyts, Frank DeFalco, Anthony Molinaro, Clair Blacketer 12 Galle Rimaud , Ccile Charles, Elena Mylonas, Gil Lampe, Lorien Benda 13 Lars Halvorsen, Jared Houghtaling, Emma Gesquiere, Benjamin Burke, Charles Rurangae, Marc Twagirumukizah, Gilbert Rukundo, Clarisse Musanabaganwa, Claude Mambo Muvunyi, Jean Claude Semuto Ngabonziza, Aurore Nishimwe 14 The EHDEN Academy Solidifying Our Foundations LH John, R Los, M Miani, P Nagy, I Soininen, R Tischler, PR Rijnbeek 15 Maaike van Swieten, Vittoria Ramella, Anna Alloni, Matteo Gabetta, Peter Prinsen, Chiara Attanasio, Espen Enerly, Siri Larnningen, Roberto Lillini, Paolo Lasalvia, Joanna Szkandera, Stefan Janisch, Andreas Muth, Emelie Styring, Julien Bollard, Annalisa Trama, Gijs Geleijnse 16 Jared Houghtaling, Emma Gesquiere, Lars Halvorsen, Marc Twagirumukiza, and Charles Ruranga 17 Framework and approach to establish a multi-registry OMOP cluster with shared OHDSI tooling and access specificity Jared Houghtaling, Emma Gesquiere, Lisa McDowell, Cathy Enright, Claire Donohoe, Tom Feusels, Lars Halvorsen 18 Jared Houghtaling, Frederic Jung, Ankur Krishnan, Marc Padros Goossens, Frank Leus, Lauren Maxwell, Tom Feusels, Freija Descamps 19 Jared Houghtaling, Jose Antonio Ramrez Garca, Clmence Le Cornec, Lore Vermeylen, Nir Assaraf, Lars Halvorsen 20 Jared Houghtaling, Lore Vermeylen, Louise Vandenbroucke, Korneel Bernaert, Brecht Dekeyser, Freija Descamps 21 Jared Houghtaling, Peter Prinsen, Maaike van Swieten, Chiara Attanasio, Lars Halvorsen 22 Jelle Praet, Jared Houghtaling, Frederic Jung, Steve De Backer, Jeroen Pinxten and Dirk Smeets 23 Julia Lanoue, Kayleigh Ougham, Neena Modi, Sam Greenbury 24 Achilleas Chytas, Maria Bigaki, Pantelis Natsiavas 25 Alberto Labarga, Sergi Aguil 26 Vlad Korsik, Anna Ostropolets, Christian Reich, Alexander Davydov 27 Marek Oja, Sirli Tamm, Raivo Kolde 28 Maria Paula Busto, Marina Atlija, Freija Descamps, Ben Burke 29 Matteo Gabetta, Francesco Pozzoni, Mauro Bucalo, Cristiana Larizza, Nicola Barbarini 30 Maxim Moinat, Anne van Winzum 31 Miguel Pedrera-Jimnez, Antonio Daz Holgado, David Moner-Cano, Paula Rubio-Mayo, Noelia Garca-Barrio, Julin Jimnez-Carramiana, Diego Bosc-Toms, Juan Luis Cruz-Bermdez, Javier de la Cruz-Bertolo, Jos Luis Bernal-Sobrino, Pablo Serrano-Balazote 32 Nicolas Matentzoglu, Melissa Haendel 33 Olivier Bouissou, Ismini Chatzitheofilou, Gennaro Ciliberto, Marco Denti, Xos Fernndez, Dennis Kadioglu, Stelios Theophanous, Jolle Thonnard, Alberto Traverso, Piers Mahon 34 Atif Adam and Piers Mahon 35 Jolle Thonnard, Frdric Calay, Audrey Timmermans, Cdric Van Marcke 36 Stelios Theophanous, Kieran Zucker, Louise Hick, Edward Bolton, Majid Riaz, Hayley Fenton, John Corkett, Sue Cheeseman, Geoff Hall 37 Olivier Bouissou, Ingrid K. S. Hanto, Elisabeth Ross 38 Daniel Maier, Fabienne A. U. Fox, Abishaa Vengadeswaran, Andrea Wolf, Christian Brandts, Daniel P. Brucker, Holger Storf, Jrg Janne Vehreschild, Timo Schneider, Dennis Kadioglu 39 Peter Prinsen, Maaike van Swieten, Chiara Attanasio, Espen Enerly, Siri Larnningen, Elisabetta Rapiti, David Marcic, Evelyne Fournier, Pierre Knzli, Michael Schnell, Sophie Couffignal, Claudine Backes 40 Robert Miller, Asieh Golozar, Georgina Kennedy, Kim W. Carter 41 Tools for the collaborative maintenance of national vocabulary and mapping Shanmukha Sampath Padmanabhuni, Anna Hammais, Pasi Rikala, Gustav Klingstedt 42 Theresa Burkard, Artem Gorbachev, Kim Lopez-Gell, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Mart Catal, Christian Reich 43 Theresa Burkard, Kim Lopez-Gell, Artem Gorbachev, Annika M Jdicke, Nuria Mercad-Besora, Talita Duarte-Salles, Dani Prieto-Alhambra, Christian Reich, Marti Catala 44 Varvara Kalokyri, Haridimos Kondylakis, Stelios Sfakianakis, Katerina Nikiforaki, Simone Mazzetti, Nikolaos Tachos, Konstantinos Marias, Manolis Tsiknakis 45 Vittoria Ramella, Matteo Gabetta, Mauro Bucalo, Nicola Barbarini Software demonstration Round I Javier Gracia-Tabuenca, Mary Pat Reeve Mike Du, Yuchen Guo, Kim Lopez-Guell, Xintong Li, Nuria Mercade Besora, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Edward Burn, Marti Catala ReportGenerator: An R Package to automate study report from Darwin EU research Cesar Barboza Gutierrez, Ger Inberg, Maarten van Kessel, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Ross D. Williams Software demonstration Round II Mart Catal, Berta Ravents, Mike Du, Yuchen Guo, Adam Black, Ger Inberg, Xintong Li, Kim Lpez-Gell, Danielle Newby, Maria de Ridder, Cesar Barboza, Talita Duarte-Salles, Katia Verhamme, Peter Rijnbeek, Daniel Prieto Alhambra, Edward Burn DrugUtilisation, an R Package to implement Patient-level Drug Utilisation Studies analysis using the OMOP common data model Yuchen Guo, Mike Du, Kim Lopez-Guell, Xintong Li, Ger Inberg, Therese Buckhard, Annika M. Jdicke, Artem Gorbachev, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Edward Burn, Mart Catal Open-source analytics development 46 CDMConnector: Cross platform OMOP CDM database query using dplyr Adam Black, Edward Burn, Artem Gorbachev, Mart Catal 47 Jared Houghtaling, Emma Gesquiere, and Lars Halvorsen 48 Jack Brewster 49 Alberto Labarga, Sergi Aguil 50 Antonella Delmestri Clinical application 51 Albert Prats-Uribe, Mart Catal, Katia M Verhamme, Maria de Ridder, Carlen Reyes, Talita Duarte-Salles, Peter Rijnbeek, Edward Burn, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Annika M. Jdicke 52 Alexandros Rekkas, David van Klaveren, Jenna M. Reps, Peter R. Rijnbeek 53 Estimating the prevalence of rare blood cancer in Europe: a network study part of DARWIN EU Mart Catal, Annika Jdicke, Albert Prats-Uribe, Katia M Verhamme, Asieh Golozar, Berta Ravents, Talita Duarte-Salles, Edelmira Mart, Peter Rijnbeek, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Edward Burn 54 Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Edward Burn, Trishna Rathod-Mistry, Kristin Kostka, Wai Man, Antonella Delmestri, Talita Duarte-Salles, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Annika M. Jdicke 55 Heart failure burden in patient with incident CKD in the US: a multi-database FOUNTAIN analysis Martin Lavallee, David Vizcaya, Elena Pessina, Nikolaus Oberprieler, Glen James, Asieh Golozar 56 Supporting pharmacovigilance signal validation and prioritisation with analysis of routinely collected health data lesson learned from an EHDEN network study Oskar Gauffin, Judith S Brand, Sara Hedfors Vidlin, Daniele Sartori, Suvi Asikainen, Mart Catal, Etir Chalabi, Daniel Dedman, Ana Danilovic, Talita Duarte Salles, Maria Teresa Garca Morales, Saara Hiltunen, Annika M. Jdicke, Milan Lazarevic, Miguel A. Mayer, Jelena Miladinovic, Joseph Mitchell, Andrea Pistillo, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Carlen Reyes, Annette Rudolph, Lovisa Sandberg, Ruth Savage, Martijn Schuemie, Dimitrije Spasic, Nhung TH Trinh, Nevena Veljkovic, Ankica Vujovic, Marcel de Wilde, Alem Zekarias, Peter Rijnbeek, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, G. Niklas Norn 57 Secur-e-Health project: towards federated learning for smart care of pediatric obesity Rita Rb-Silva, Carolina Ameijeiras-Rodrigues, Jos Miguel Diniz, Joo Moreira-Pinto, Alberto Freitas, Tiago Taveira-Gomes 58 Solomon Ioannou, Egill Fridgeirsson, Marcel de Wilde, Jan Kors, Peter Rijnbeek, Katia Verhamme 59 Tijs Delabastita, Pieter Maertens, Jared Houghtaling, Pieter Stijnen, Guy Vanden Boer, Johan Van Eldere 60 Yi Chai, Ivan C. H. Lam, Eric Y. F. Wan, Celine S. L. Chui, Xue Li, Kenneth K. C. Man, Wallis C. Y. Lau, Xiaoyu Lin, Can Yin, Fan Min, Jing Li, Sarah Seager, Mui Van Zandt, Hao Luo, Ian C. K. Wong 61 Nicola L. Barclay, Annika M. Jdicke, Xihang Chen, Antonella Delmestri, Berta Ravents, Wai Yi Man, Danielle Newby, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Marta Pineda-Moncus, Mart Catal 62 Dan Housman, Yuval Koren, Daniel Poscover, Charles E. Barr, Aaron Kamauu, Amanda Shields 63 Yonatan Schwarcz, Chen Yanover, Inbal Goldshtein 64 Johnmary T. Arinze, Maria de Ridder, Talita Duarte-Salles, Marti Catala-Sabate, Antonella Delmestri, Hezekiah Omulo, James Brash, Hanne van Ballegooijen, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Angela Leis, Miguel-Angel Mayer, Romain Griffier, Peter Rijnbeek, Dani Prieto Alhambra, Katia MC Verhamme 65 Nria Mercad-Besora, Wai Man, Antonella Delmestri, Clara Prats, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Annika M Jdicke, Mart Catal 66 Large-scale characterization of patient with metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer across a network of observational data. Results from the European network of excellence for big data in prostate cancer (PIONEER)s Second Studyathon Asieh Golozar, Juan Gomez Rivas, Rossella Nicoletti, Bertrand de Meulder, Qi Feng, Susan Evans Axelsson, Robert Snijder, Artem Gorbachev, Ayemn Hijazi, Peter Prinsen, Philip Cornford, Peter-Paul Willemse, Anders Bjartell, Teemu Murtola, Carl Steinbeier, James Ndow, PIONEER consortium 67 Prevalence and treatment pattern in Patients with Bipolar Disorder Depression Carmen O. Torre, Anda Gershon 68 Validation and Comparison of Frailty Indexes: An OHDSI Network Study Chen Yanover, Louisa Smith, Tal El-Hay, Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Maytal Bivas-Benita, Robert Cavanaugh, Pinchas Akiva, Chelsea N. Wong, Ariela Orkaby 69 Chen Yanover, Ramit Magen-Rimon, Erica Voss, Joel Swerdel, Anna Sheahan, Nathan Hall, Jimyung Park, Rae Woong Park, Kwang Jae Lee, Sung Jae Shin, Seung In Seo, Kyung-Joo Lee, Thomas Falconer, Leonard Haas, Paul Nagy, Mary Bowring, Michael Cook, Steven Miller, Tal El-Hay, Maytal Bivas-Benita, Pinchas Akiva, Yehuda Chowers, Roni Weisshof 70 Prediction of 30-day, 90-day and 1 year mortality after colorectal cancer surgery using a data-driven approach Karoline Bendix Bruner, Andi Tsouchnika, Maliha Mashkoor, Ross D. Williams, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Morten Frederik Schlaikjr Hartwig, Mustafa Bulut, Niclas Dohrn, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Ismail Ggenur 71 Emma Lippens, Victor Pera, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Katia M.C. Verhamme 72 A Nationwide Cohort Study of Outcomes and Mortality after Colorectal Surgery in Elderly Patients Ilze Ose, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Karoline Bendix Bruner, Maliha Mashkoor, Mathilde Glud Christensen, Emilie Barbara Palmgren Colov, Rasmus Peuliche Vogelsang, Ismail Ggenur, Rasmus Dahlin Bojesen 73 The association of short-, medium and long-term cardiovascular sequela with COVID-19 infection: a multinational pilot study Ivan C.H Lam, Yi Chai, Eric Y.F Wan, Celine S.L Chui, Xue Li, Carlos K.H Wong, Hao Luo, Kenneth K.C Man, Xiaoyu Lin, Can Yin, Jing Li, Mui Van Zandt, Sarah Seager, Ian Chi Kei Wong 74 Dries Hens, Ana Moya, Clara L. Oeste, Monika Beles, Sofie Verstreken, Riet Dierckx, Ward Heggermont, Jozef Bartunek, Eline Bogaerts, Imke Masuy, Marc Vanderheyden 75 The appraisal of WHO definition of post COVID-19 condition (long COVID): an international network cohort and meta-analysis study Junqing Xie#, Kim Lpez-Gell#, Kristin Kostka, Alicia Abellan, Jessie O Oyinlola, Jaime Melndez-Cardiel, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Anneli Uuskla, Johnmary T. Arinze, Theresa Burkard, Edward Burn, Zara Cuccu, Daniel Dedman, Dominique Delseny, Talita Duarte-Salles, Chungsoo Kim10, Ji-woo Kim, Raivo Kolde, Francesco Lapi, Ral Lpez-Blasco, Cora Loste, Ettore Marconi, lvaro Martnez, Lourdes Mateu, Miguel A. Mayer, Nria Mercad-Besora, Gregoire Mercier, Mees Mosseveld, Hedvig ME Nordeng, Nhung TH Trinh, Bernardo Valdivieso, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Roger Paredes*, Mart Catal*, Annika M. Jdicke* 76 Marcela Rivera, David Vizcaya, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Angela Leis, Miguel Angel Mayer 77 Kim Lpez-Gell#, Mart Catal#, Daniel Dedman, Talita Duarte-Salles, Raivo Kolde, Ral Lpez-Blasco, lvaro Martnez, Lourdes Mateu, Gregoire Mercier, Alicia Abellan, Johnmary T. Arinze, Theresa Burkard, Edward Burn, Zara Cuccu, Dominique Delseny, Chungsoo Kim, Ji-woo Kim, Kristin Kostka, Francesco Lapi, Cora Loste, Ettore Marconi, Miguel A. Mayer, Jaime Melndez-Cardiel, Nria Mercad-Besora, Mees Mosseveld, Hedvig ME Nordeng, Jessie O Oyinlola, Roger Paredes, Juan Manuel Ramrez-Anguita, Nhung TH Trinh, Anneli Uuskla, Bernardo Valdivieso, Junqing Xie, Annika M Jdicke*, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra* 78 Associations between pre-operative cholesterol level with long-term survival after colorectal cancer surgery: A nationwide propensity score-matched cohort study Lea Lffler, Mikail Ggenur, Ismail Ggenur Methodological research 79 Phenotyping for DARWIN EU: Standardising the phenotype creation process and the metadata storage to increase reproducibility, traceability, and reusability. Albert Prats-Uribe, Annika M. Jdicke, Asieh Golozar, Christian Reich, Rowan Parry, Peter Rijnbeek, Katia M Verhamme, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra 80 Cynthia Yang, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Jan A. Kors, Jenna M. Reps, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Jenna Wong, Ross D. Williams 81 Aniek F. Markus, Jan A. Kors, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Katia M.C. Verhamme, Peter R. Rijnbeek 82 A Data Driven Approach to Database Fitness for Use Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco, Dmitry Dymshyts, Martijn Schuemie, Peter Rijnbeek 83 Martina Carres, Gabriel Maeztu, Mnica Arre 84 Tom M. Seinen, Jan A. Kors, Erik M. van Mulligen, Peter R. Rijnbeek 85 Gidius van de Kamp, Alexandros Rekkas 86 Jared Houghtaling, Katrien Foubert 87 LH John, C Kim, JM Reps, EA Fridgeirsson 88 Markus Haug, Raivo Kolde 89 Siir Su Saydam, Carina Dinkel-Keuthage, Cecilia Caetano, Cecile Janssenswillen, Carsten Moeller, Nils Schoof, James Brash, Victoria Banks 2024 powered by Top | | | Save Our Sisyphus Challenge The OHDSI mission is to improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. The 2023 Save Our Sisyphus (SOS) Challenge attempted to fulfill that mission, but not through one study at a time.Our community simultaneously collaborated on four studies, each of which were designed, implemented, executed and will ultimately be disseminated by member of the OHDSI global community.As you can see on the right, there were two weekly tutorial taught by different member of the the community. These focused on two of the four study (see below), but they also serve a educational tool for people who plan to lead or participate in a network study in the future. Updates While tutorial for the SOS Challenge have concluded, work on the study are ongoing. Cindy Cai, who is leading the Anti-VEGF study, announced that data partner are being accepted through July 14, 2023; her interpretation on the first study result . Jack Janetzki, Seng Chan You and the fluoroquinolone also provided a last week, and they announced through the end of July. SOS Challenge Studies Intravitreal Anti-VEGF and Kidney Failure Lead: Cindy Cai Is fluoroquinolone use really associated with the development of aortic aneurysm Leads: Jack Janetzki, Jung Ho Kim, Seonji Kim, Jung Ah Lee, Nicole Pratt, Seng Chan You, Amongst people with psoriasis, doe exposure to Risankizumab increase the risk of cerebrovascular event while on treatment relative to other biologic therapies? Lead: Zenas Yiu Characterization: incidence of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) during Multiple Sclerosis (MS) biologic exposure Lead: Thamir Alshammary Tutorial Recordings Week 9: Interpreting the Results Session 1: Cindy Cai () Session 2: Jack Janetzki, Seng Chan You Week 8: Evidence Synthesis Session 1: Yong Chen (), Martijn Schuemie() Session 2: Marc Suchard Week 7: Study Diagnostics Session 1: Fan Bu, George Hripcsak() Session 2: Mitchell Conover, Nicole Pratt () Week 6: Network Execution Session 1: Jenna Reps, Jack Brewster () Session 2: Anthony Sena, Chungsoo Kim Week 5: Analysis Design Session 1: Patrick Ryan () Session 2: Patrick Ryan () Week 4: Phenotype Evaluation Session 1: James Gilbert, Azza Shoaibi () Session 2: James Gilbert, Evan Minty Special Extra Tutorial: PheValuator PheValuator: Joel Swerdel Week 3: Phenotype Development Session 1a: Anna Ostropolets Outcome Design Session 1b: Asieh Golozar Exposure Design Session 2a: Christian Reich Exposure Design Session 2b: Gowtham Rao Outcome Design Week 2: Data Diagnostics Session 1: Clair Blacketer, Mui Van Zandt, Sarah Seager () Session 2: Mui Van Zandt/Jing Li Week 1: Initiating A Network Study Session 1: Marc Suchard Session 2: Seng Chan You 2024 powered by Top | | | DevCon 2023 Highlights New Developments, Opportunities In OHDSI Open-Source Environment The Open-Source Community hosted DevCon 2023 a a way to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer in the OHDSI Community. Organized by Paul NagyandAdam Black, the event feature 11 short talk around five topic (see agenda below) in the first session, followed by a trio of workshop that focused on significant topic for sustained success within our open-source community.The event also opened the application process for the Khieron Contributor 2023-24 Cohort. This program will help onboard and mentor open-source developer in the community for a second straight year. Katy Sadowski, a member of the original cohort, provided a video and written testimonial about her experience with the Kheiron Cohort. The first DevCon wa held last year and featured a trio of talk and eight different workshop on open-source tools; .Meeting invitation for DevCon 2023 went out on March 13. If you did not receive one, please use the link below to join the session. DevCon 2023 Presentations Open-Source Economics (Adam Black, Clark Evans) Darwin EU (Ed Burn, Berta Ravents) Julia (Kyrylo Simonov, Jacob Zelko) HADES (Anthony Sena, Jenna Reps) Open-Source Governance (Paul Nagy, Robert Miller, Lee Evans) Kheiron Cohort Testimonial (Katy Sadowski) 2024 powered by Top | | | Phenotype Phebruary 2023: How To Join The Effort Phenotype Phebruary wa a community-wide initiative to both develop and evaluate phenotype for health outcome that could be investigated by the community.This is the second year of Phenotype Phebruary in the OHDSI community (). It wa introduced during the Jan. 31 community call (), and went on throughout the month. This year, the leadership team of Gowtham RaoandAzza Shoaibihelped identify 11 phenotype that are being investigated throughout the month. Though the month ha ended, the work continues. If you would like to join the discussion around any of the phenotypes, please visit the appropriate link below, which will take you to the proper thread on the OHDSI forums. What Did We Accomplish? Join Our Community Efforts Around Any Of These Phenotypes Join Our Community Discussions Around These Phenotype Phebruary Topics Phenotype Phebruary Videos (Feb. 28) Azza Shoaibi and Gowtham Rao provide an update on the final week of Phenotype Phebruary. Evan Minty and Khyzer Aziz discussed some specific phenotype work around neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy, while Azza Shoiabi provided an impressive wrap-up of all the output from the month. (Feb. 21) Azza Shoaibi and Gowtham Rao provide an update on the third week of Phenotype Phebruary. The phenotype discussion that were featured during Week 3 included Parkinsons disease (Allan Wu) and myocardial infarction (Mirza Khan/Adam Atif), and Mirza Khan join the discussion to provide an update on myocardial infarction. Khyzer Aziz discus early work done on the Week 4 phenotype, Neonatal Hypoxic Ischemic Encephalopathy. (Feb. 14) Azza Shoaibi and Gowtham Rao provide an update on the second week of Phenotype Phebruary. The phenotype discussion that began during Week 2 included systemic lupus erythematous (Joel Swerdel), acute hepatic failure (Christian Reich), and idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (Christopher Mecoli). There wa also a discussion about chart review gold standard validation v innovative method like PheValuator. (Feb. 10) Week 2 of Phenotype Phebruary concluded with this OHDSI Phenotype Development and Evaluation workgroup meeting. In this session, the workgroup assigned lead to each phenotype that are part of the OHDSI Phenotype Phebruary 2023, including development of a publication plan for each of the 10 phenotypes.There wa also an in-depth look at the work being done on the Inflammatory Dermatomyositis phenotype (around the 36:00 mark). (Feb. 8) Allan Wu, MD, discus his approach to replicate a published phenotype algorithm on OHDSI tools. He present two phenotype algorithms, a) Unanminity definition, and b) Tiered consensus algorithm in Atlas. Unanminity definition demonstrates the use of future event to attain high specificity in the definition. Tiered consensus algorithm requires use of provider specialty that may need creative solutions. The group agreed to move the Unanminity definition to an OHDSI network study, while continuing to iterate on Tiered consensus definition. (Feb. 8) Christopher Mecoli, MD, and team demonstrated progress in the development of a cohort definition for Inflammatory Dermatomyositis at Johns Hopkins University. The team discussed their experience running Cohort Diagnostics, and reviewed the result on data.ohdsi.org. They discussed the impact of design choices, specifically the use of lab value in cohort definitions. Decisions were made to improve the cohort definition logic. (Feb. 7) Azza Shoaibi and Gowtham Rao provide an update on the first week of Phenotype Phebruary. The phenotype discussion that began during Week 1 included acute pancreatitis (Evan Minty), anaphylaxis (Andrea Noel), appendicitis (Azza Shoaibi), and neutropenia (Anna Ostropolets). (Feb. 8) Mirza Khan, MD, discussed the clinical idea of ST elevated Myocardial Infarction and how it is different from other Myocardial infarction. This video demonstrates the translation of the clinical idea into an Atlas Cohort Definition. You can observe how to a) Clarify the clinical idea, b) Develop logic description, c) Structure the logic description into ATLAS cohort definition logic, and d) Develop cohort definition in Atlas. (Feb. 4) Andrea Noel, Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao and others joined in a peer review around phenotyping appendicitis. (Jan. 31) Patrick Ryan and Azza Shoiabi provided an introduction to Phenotype Phebruary with a look at the importance and challenge of phenotyping, some of the open-source tool developed to assist the process, how successful development & evaluation of phenotype can aid OHDSI research, and how the community can take part in Phenotype Phebruary. 2024 powered by Top | | | 2022 OHDSI Symposium Oct. 14-16 Bethesda North Marriott Hotel & Conference Center Thank you to everybody who joined u in Bethesda, Md., for the 2022 OHDSI Symposium. This page feature all material from the main conference, which focused on Building A Healthier World Together. It includes video of all the presentations, link to the collaborator showcase, and all slidedecks from the speaker at the bottom of the page.The weekend also featured an all-day tutorial on An Introductory Journey from Data to Evidence. to visit those recording and slides. State of the Community George Hripcsak (Columbia University) opened the 2022 OHDSI Symposium with a reflection on the state of the OHDSI community. The talk provided a high-level overview of what OHDSI is all about, recent achievements, and how to become more active in the community. It us the recent Our Journey publication a a guide, .Following that talk, Patricia Lloyd (US Food and Drug Administration) give a brief talk on safety monitoring of COVID-19 vaccine within the FDA BEST Initiative. OHDSI is proud to support FDA effort in this area. Play Video Plenary: Objective Diagnostics: A pathway to provably reliable evidence The plenary presentation from the 2022 OHDSI Symposium wa led by Martijn Schuemie (Johnson & Johnson) and focused on Objective Diagnostics: A pathway to provably reliable evidence. Patrick Ryan (Johnson & Johnson, Columbia University) also took part in this session.This session introduced a series of diagnostics that can be evaluated to determine database, phenotype, and analysis fitness-for-use for generating reliable evidence. The presentation demonstrates the empirical performance of these objective diagnostics across the LEGEND-HTN result set to illustrate how objective diagnostics can be used and how they improve the quality of evidence generated. Play Video Presentations: OHDSI support for regulatory authority The 2022 OHDSI Symposium included a trio of presentation focused on OHDSI support for regulatory authorities. Each talk included an introduction from a regulatory agency representative. Right US FDA/CBER: Performance of vaccine safety surveillance method (Fan Bu, UCLA) Below, left Korean National Institute of Food and Drug Safety Evaluation; Evolution of Evidence-Based Medicine: Why Do We Replicate Trials? (Seng Chan You, Yonsei University)Below, right European Medicines Agency: DARWIN-EU (Peter Rijnbeek, Erasmus MC) Play Video Play Video Play Video Collaborator Showcase all of the posters, software demo and lightning talk presented at the 2022 Symposium. The OHDSI Symposium Collaborator Showcase featured eight lightning talk that were moderated by Kristin Kostka of Northeastern University. (Tom Seinen, Erasmus MC) (Azza Shoaibi, Johnson & Johnson) (Ajit Londhe, Amgen) (Cynthia Yang, Erasmus MC) (Behzad Naderalvojoud, Stanford University) (Linying Zhang, Columbia University) (Chul Hyoung Park, Ajou University) (Lovedeep Dhingra, Yale University) Closing: Building A Healthier World Together The 2022 Symposium Closing Talk wa provided by Patrick Ryan (Johnson & Johnson, Columbia University), who discussed the theme of Building A Healthier World Together, and how the OHDSI community can collaborate to achieve that goal. He focused on the scientific practice that can help this aim, but he also discussed the critical value of teamwork. That led to the first-ever OHDSI Lego Challenge, a well a a memorable lego stop-motion video (58:35 in the presentation).This talk opened with the announcement of the 2022 Titan Award recipients. The Titan Awards are awarded annually to individual or team within the OHDSI community who have made significant contribution towards advancing OHDSIs mission, vision and values. Play Video They are both nominated and voted upon by community members, and they are announced at the global symposium. The recipient were:Data Standards: Melanie Philofsky, Odysseus Data ServicesMethodological Research: Fan Bu, UCLAOpen-Source Development: Egill Fridgeirsson, Erasmus MC and James Gilbert, Janssen Research and DevelopmentClinical Applications: Xintong Li, University of OxfordCommunity Collaboration: Ajit Londhe, Boehringer IngelheimCommunity Leadership: Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins UniversityCommunity Support: Craig Sachson, Columbia University Slidedecks From The Main Conference Session I State of the Community (George Hripcsak, Columbia University) (Patricia Lloyd, US Food and Drug Administration)Session II Plenary (Martijn Schuemie, Johnson & Johnson; Patrick Ryan, Johnson & Johnson/Columbia University)Session III OHDSI support for regulatory authority (Fan Bu, UCLA) (Seng Chan You, Yonsei University (Peter Rijnbeek, Erasmus MC)Session IV Lightning Talks (Tom Seinen, Erasmus MC) (Azza Shoaibi, Johnson & Johnson) (Ajit Londhe, Amgen) (Cynthia Yang, Erasmus MC) (Behzad Naderalvojoud, Stanford University) (Linying Zhang, Columbia University) (R-CDM) (Chul Hyoung Park, Ajou University) (Lovedeep Dhingra, Yale University)Session V Closing (Patrick Ryan, Johnson & Johnson/Columbia University) 2024 powered by Top | | | 2022 Collaborator Showcase 2022 Collaborator Showcase SOFTWARE DEMOS 1 (Pieter-Jan Lammertyn, Stijn Dupulthys, Louise Berteloot, Peter De Jaeger,Kim Denturck, Nathalie Mertens) 2 (Thanapat Pitchayarat, Gun Pinyo, Watcharaporn Tanchotsrinon, Somkid Khamsrimuang, Chalita Issarasittiphap, Chaiyanun Bootnumpech, Noppon Siangchin, Kanphitcha Promma, Nattachai Bovornmongkolsak, Prapat Suriyaphol, Natthawut Adulyanukosol) 3 (Tom Seinen,Peter Rijnbeek) 4 (Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco, Anthony Molinaro, Dmitry Ilyn, Luis Alaniz, Maxim Moinat) 5 (Frank DeFalco, Clair Blacketer) 6 (Anna Ostropolets, George Hripcsak, Christopher Knoll, Patrick Ryan) 7 (Yilu Fang , Betina Idnay, Yingcheng Sun, Hao Liu, Zhehuan Chen, Karen Marder, Hua Xu, Rebecca Schnall, Chunhua Weng) 8 (Martin Lavallee, Adam Black and Asieh Golozar) 9 (Tiffany J. Callahan, Patrick B. Ryan, George Hripcsak) 10 (Christopher Knoll) 11 (Marti Catala, Berta Raventas, Mike Du, Yuchen Guo, Xintong Li, Ross Williams, Talita Duarte Salles, Daniel Prieto Alhambra, Edward Burn) 12 (Adam Black, Martin Lavallee, Asieh Golozar, Gregory Klebanov) 13 (Anthony G. Sena, Christopher Knoll, James Gilbert, Jenna Reps, Frank DeFalco, Clair Blacketer, Anthony Molinaro, Joshua Ide, Patrick Ryan, Martijn Schuemie) 14 (Parsa Mirhaji, Selvin Soby, Erin Henninger, Chandra Nelapatla, Manuel Wahle, Boudewijn Aasman, Eran Bellin) 15 (James P. Gilbert, Justin Bohn, Chris Knoll, David M. Kern) 16 (Jenna M. Reps, Jenna Wong, Ross Williams) 17 (Star Liu, Asieh Golozar, Jody-Ann McLeggon, Adam Black, Paul Nagy POSTERS Observational Data Standards & Measurement 18 (Jason Patterson, Xinzhou Jiang, Hongjue Wang, Nripendra Acharya, Chao Pang, Matthew Spotnitz, Karthik Natarajan) 19 (Parsa Mirhaji, Selvin Soby, Erin Henninger, Chandra Nelapatla, Manuel Wahle, Boudewijn Aasman, Eran Belin) 20 (Lina Sulieman, Karthik Natarajan, Kayla Marginean, Robert Carroll, Paul Harris) 21 (Sigfried Gold, Tanner Zhang, Richard L. Zhu, Stephanie Hong, Harold P. Lehmann, Davera Gabriel, Tricia Francis, Lisa Eskenazi, Christopher G. Chute) 22 (Frank DeFalco, Anthony Molinaro, Clair Blacketer) 23 (Adam Black, Yupeng Li, Denys Kaduk, Licong Cui, Rashmie Abeysinghe, Lixia Yao) 24 (Sanya B. Taneja, Mary F. Paine, Sandra L. Kane-Gill, Richard D. Boyce) 25 (Michael Gurley, Asieh Golozar) 26 (Briana Malik, Kyulee Jeon, Tarik Alkasab, Pedro Mallol, Seng Chan You, Paul Nagy) 27 (Seo Jeong Shin, Peter Prinsen, Chiara Attanasio, Gijs Geleijnse, Lingjie Shen, Anna J. van Gestel, Seng Chan You, Han Sang Kim, SangJoon Shin) 28 (Tanner Zhang, Steven Miller, Michael Cook, Alan Coltri, Zachary Wang, Paul Nagy, Justin Rucci, Galina Lozinski, Matthew Robinson) 29 (Xinzhuo Jiang, Maura Beaton, Jake Gillberg, Andrew Williams, Karthik Natarajan) 30 (Sebastiaan van Sandijk, Peter Prinsen, Mieke van Hemelrijck, Michael Kallfelz, Dalia Dawoud) 31 (Janos Hajagos) 32 (Travis Zack, Asieh Golozar, Christian Reich, Atul Butte, Eric Collisson, Jeremy Warner, Julian Hong) 33 (Seongwon Lee, Chungsoo Kim, Junhyuk Chang, Rae Woong Park) 34 (Noelia Garcia, Miguel Pedrera, Blanca Baselga, Paula Rubio, Alberto Tato, Cristina Diaz, Tomas Gonzalez, Bruno Diez, Victor Quiros, Teresa Garcia, Juan Luis Cruz, Jose Luis Bernal, Pablo Serrano) 35 (Chungsoo Kim, Jimyung Park, Byungjin Choi, Seongwon Lee, Rae Woong Park) 36 (Michael N. Cantor, Deepika Sharma) 37 (Lorien Benda, Regis Lassalle, Cecile Roseau, Stephanie Combes, Cecile Droz-Perroteau, Nicolas Thurin) 38 (Luis Alberto Robles Hernandez, Juan M. Banda) 39 (Spencer SooHoo, Andrey Soares, Rohith Mohan, Renier Estiandan, Ryan Hoffman, Shao Chi Huang, Brian Tep, David Kreda, Dan Gottlieb, Aaron Boussina, Paul Kingsbury, Lisa Schilling) Open-Source Analytics Development 40 (Smith Heavner, Trayson Llano, Zachary Wang, Marco Schito, Heather Stone, Pam Dasher, Tresha Russel, Vishakha Kumar, Ben Saeks, Michael Cooke, Rahul Kashyap, Matthew Robinson, Paul Nagy) 41 (Eduard Korchmar, Polina Talapova, Maria Kolesnyk, Denys Kaduk) 42 (Andrew Wen, Liwei Wang, Huan He, Sunyang Fu, Sijia Liu, Hongfang Liu) 43 (Thi Ngoc Mai Nguyen, Christina Raabe, Stephanie von Klot) 44 (Charity Hilton, Saul Crumpton, Jon Duke) *Best Community Contribution Award Honoree 45 (Juan M. Banda, Tiffany J. Callahan) 46 (Jimyung Park, Roh Jin, Jianfu Li, Hua Xu, Rae Woong Park) 47 (Roger Carlson, Matthew Phad, Samuel Martin) 48 (John Gresh) 49 (Ashwini Davison, Animesh Jha, Steve Fu, James Wiggins) 50 (Gregory Klebanov, Alexey Manoylenko, Sebastiaan van Sandijk) 51 (Akira Koseki, Italo Buleje, Prithwish Chakraborty, Elif Eyigoz, Mohamed Ghalwash,Takashi Itoh,Toshiya Iwamori, Michharu Kudo, Pablo Meyer, Kenney Ng, Parthasarathy Suryanarayanan, Hiroki Yanagisawa, Jianying Hu) 52 (Natthawut Adulyanukosol, David Gotz) 53 (Jenna M. Reps and Yauheniya Cherkas) 54 (Chungsoo Kim, Jenna Reps, Henrik John, Seng Chan You, Egill Fridgeirsson) 55 (Kyungseon Choi, Sang Jun Park, Sola Han, Siin Kim, Hae Sun Suh) 56 (Yong Chen, Jiayi Tong, Chongliang Luo, Lu Li, Yiwen Lu, Hai-Shuo Shu) Methodological Research 57 (Vipina Keloth, Juan Banda, Michael Gurley, Paul Heider, Georgina Kennedy, Hongfang Liu, Feifan Liu, Timothy Miller, Karthik Natarajan, Olga Patterson, Yifan Peng, Ruth M. Reeves, Masoud Rouhizadeh, Jianlin Shi, Xiaoyan Wang, Yanshan Wang, Wei-Qi Wei, Andrew Williams, Rui Zhang, Rimma Belenkaya, Christian Reich, Clair Blacketer, Patrick Ryan, George Hripcsak, Noemie Elhadad, Hua Xu) 58 (Junhyuk Chang, Jimyung Park, Chungsoo Kim, Rae Woong Park) 59 (Anthony Molinaro, Frank DeFalco) 60 (Ramya Tekumalla, Raj Manickam, Yen Low) 61 (Jill Hardin, Pranav Bhimani, Raechel Davis, Joel Swerdel) 62 (Matthew Spotnitz, Thomas Falconer, Maura Beaton, Karthik Natarajan) 63 (Rupa Makadia, Kevin Haynes, Patrick Ryan) 64 (Stephen Fortin, Jenna Reps, Patrick Ryan) 65 (Xiaodong Zhu, Miao Chen, Daniel Slaughter, Elizabeth Lyon, Pallavi Misra, Michael Biorn) 66 (Joel N. Swerdel, Mitchell M. Conover) 67 (Joel N. Swerdel, Jenna M. Reps) 68 (Justin Bohn, James P. Gilbert, Christopher Knoll, David M.Kern) 69 (Shiyao Xu, Akihiko Nishimura, Elizabeth Ogburn) 70 (Lu Li, Jiayi Tong, Suchitra Rao, Mackenzie Edmondson, Vitaly Lorman, Hanieh Razzaghi, Haitao Chu, Christopher B. Forrest, Yong Chen) 71 (Akihiko Nishimura, Marc A. Suchard) 72 (Jiayi Tong, Chongliang Luo, Jiang Bian, Milou Brand, Zhaoyi Chen, Scott DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Mengchun Gong, Kevin He, Chung-Soo Kim, Miguel Angel Mayer, Bhavnisha Patel, Di Wang, Hua Xu, Guanjin Yin, Yujia Zhou, David A. Asch, Yong Chen) 73 (Undina Gisladottir, Nicholas Tatonetti) 74 (Aniek F. Markus, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Jan A. Kors, Katia M.C. Verhamme, Peter R. Rijnbeek) 75 (Byungjin Choi, Dong Yun Lee, Chungsoo Kim, Jimyung Park, Rae Woong Park) 76 (Cynthia Yang, Egill A. Fridgeirsson, Jan A. Kors, Jenna M. Reps, Peter R. Rijnbeek) 77 (Praveen Kumar, Sharon E. Davis, Michael E. Matheny, Gerardo Villarreal, Yiliang Zhu, Mauricio Tohen, Douglas J. Perkins, Christophe G. Lambert) Clinical Applications 78 (John Methot, Melanie Philofsky, Brian Bush, Edward Burns, Daniel Smith, Paul Nagy) 79 (Mary Grace Bowring, Michael Cook, Star Lui, Khyzer Aziz, Aki Nishimura, Paul Nagy) 80 (Jacob Zelko, Malina Hy, Varshini Chinta, Emily Liau, Morgan Knowlton, Jon Duke) *Best Community Contribution Award Honoree 81 (Jiayi Tong, Yishan Shen, Alice Xu, Chongliang Luo, Mackenzie Edmondson, Ruowang Li, Di Wang, Kevin He, David A. Asch, Yong Chen) 82 (Asieh Golozar, Martin Lavallee, Adam Black, Darya Kosareva, Michael Gurley, Christian Reich) 83 (Nathan Hall, Rupa Makadia) 84 (Kristin Kostka, Evan Minty, Antonella Delmestri, Barrack Omondi, MartiCatala, Elena Roel, Edward Burn, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Annika M. Jadicke) 85 (Hart P. Fogel, Matthew Spotnitz, Gillian O Connell, Claire A.Donnelley, Dominique Higgins, Peter C. Noback, Paul McCormick, Patrick Reid) 86 (Matthew Spotnitz, Victor G. Castano, Genna J. Waldman, Evan F. Joiner, Hyunmi Choi, Anna Ostropolets, Karthik Natarajan, Guy M. McKhann, Ruth Ottman, Al I. Neugut, George Hripcsak, Brett E. Youngerman) 87 (Maura Beaton, Matthew Spotnitz, Thomas Falconer, Melissa Accordino,DivayaBhutani, Alison Callahan, Nigam Shah, Jake Gillberg, Andrew Williams, Karthik Natarajan) 88 (Brianne Olivieri-Mui, Chelsea Wong, Michael Wilczek, Jordon Bosse) 89 (Jacob Lombardi, Krishi Akenapalli, Rohit Marwah, Richard Boyce, Jonathan Raviotta, Sandra Kane-Gill, Steven Albert) 90 (Kevin Haynes, Christopher Knoll, Rupa Makadia, Patrick Ryan) 91 (Martin Lavallee, David Vizcaya, Ron Herrera, Niki Oberprieler, Glen James, Darya Kosareva, and Asieh Golozar) 92 (Torunn Sivesind, Grace Bosma, Camille Hochheimer, Lisa Schilling, Robert Dellavalle) 93 (Victor Pera, Peter Rijnbeek, Katia Verhamme) 94 (Soobeen Seol, Jimyung Park, Chungsoo Kim, Rae Woong Park) 95 (Seng Chan You, Subin Kim, Yongjae Lee, Jing Li, Can Yin, Mui Van Zandt) 96 (Jianfu Li, Jimyung Park, Xinyue Hu, Jingqi Wang, Rae Woong Park, Hua Xu) 97 (Yiqiao Yin) 98 (Do Duy Khang, Phung-Anh Nguyen, Chang-I Chen, Chung-Chien Huang, Carlos Shu-Kei Lam, Noi Yar, Christine Y. Lu,Chi-Tsun Cheng, Jason C. Hsu) 99 (Jason C. Hsu, Phung-Anh Nguyen, Phan Thanh Phuc, Tsai-Chih Lo, Min-Huei Hsu, Chi-Tsun Cheng, Tzu-Hao Chang, Cheng-Yu Chen) 100 (Alex PA. Nguyen, Phuc T. Nguyen, Min-Huei Hsu, Jason C. Hsu) 101 (Phan Thanh Phuc, Phung Anh Nguyen, Jason C. Hsu) 102 (Stijn Dupulthys, Pieter-Jan Lammertyn, David McAuliffe, Louise Berteloot, Nathalie Mertens, Kim Denturck, Peter De Jaeger, Karl Dujardin) 103 (Muhammad Solihuddin Muhtar, Faizul Hasan, Alex P.A. Nguyen, Jason C. Hsu, Hsiao-Yean Chiu) 104 (Dong Yun Lee, Chungsoo Kim, Jimyung Park, Rae Woong Park) 105 (Su Jin Gan, Dong Yun Lee, Jimyung Park, Rae Woong Park) 106 (Ivan Chun Hang Lam, Yi Chai, Celine Sze Ling Chui, Eric Yuk Fai Wan, Xue Li, Carlos King Ho Wong, Hao Luo, Kenneth Keng Cheung Man, Xiaoyu Lin, Can Yin, Jing Li, Mui Van Zandt, Christian Reich, Katherine Duszynski, Nicole Pratt, Ian Chi Kei Wong) 107 (Yi Chai, Kenneth K.C. Man, Hao Luo, Carmen Olga Torre, Xiaoyu Lin, Can Yin, Ivan C.H. Lam, Stephen Fortin, David M. Kern, Dong Yun Lee, Rae Woong Park, Jae-Won Jang, Jing Li, Christian Reich, Wallis C.Y. Lau, Ian C.K. Wong) 108 (Nathan M Pajor, Vitaly Lorman, Hanieh Razzaghi, Abigail Case, Priya Prahalad, Seuli Bose Brill, Qiong Wu, Yong Chen, Jason Block, Payal B Patel, Suchitra Rao, Asuncion Mejias, Deepika Thacker, Ravi Jhaveri, Grace M. Lee) 109 (Nishanth Pavinkurve, Maura Beaton, Tilly Seesillapachi, Xinzhuo Jiang, Hua Xu, Karthik Natarajan) 110 (Ronald Herrera, Victoria Banks, Cecilia Caetano, Cecile Janssenswillen, Carsten Moeller, Siir Su Saydam, James Brash, James Yang, Sarah Seager, Christian Reich, Renate Schulze-Rath) 111 (Asieh Golozar, Anna Ostropolets, Martin LaVallee, Adam Black, Ines Neves, Christian Reich) ORAL TALKS 112 (Tom Seinen presenter, Erik van Mulligen, Jan Kors, Katia Verhamme, Peter Rijnbeek) 113 (Azza Shoaibi presenter, Joel Swerdel, Allan Wu, Gowtham Rao, Adam Black, Evan Minty, Asieh Golozar, Rupa Makadia, Jill Hardin, Erica Voss, Tiffany J. Callahan, Juan Banda, Anna Ostropolets, Claudia Pulgarin, Marcela Rivera, David Vizcaya, Patrick Ryan) 114 (Ajit Londhe presenter, Brad Rechkemmer, Gregory Klebanov, Alexey Manoylenko, Anton Abushkevich, Sergey Suvorov) 115 (Cynthia Yang presenter, Jenna Reps) 116 (Behzad Naderalvojoud presenter, Tina Hernandez-Boussard) 117 (Linying Zhang presenter, Lauren R. Richter, David M. Blei, Yixin Wang, Anna Ostropolets, Noemie Elhadad, George Hripcsak) *Best Community Contribution Award Honoree 118 (Chul Hyoung Park presenter, Rae Woong Park, Sang Jun Park, Da Yun Lee, Seng Chan You, Ki Hwang Lee) *Best Community Contribution Award Honoree 119 (Lovedeep S Dhingra presenter, Mark A Suchard, Kelly Li, Martijn J Schuemie, Yuan Lu, Anna Ostropolets, RuiJun Chen, Tara Anand, Faaizah Arshad, Clair Blacketer, Fan Bu, David Dorr, Talita Duarte Salles, Thomas Falconer, Yuntian Liu, Kenneth Man, Evan Minty, Daniel Morales, Aki Nishimura, Carlen Reyes, Andrea Pistillo, Nicole Pratt, Eric Yuk Fai Wan, Jianxiao Yang, Can Yin, Seng Chan You, Patrick B Ryan, George Hripcsak, Harlan M Krumholz, Rohan Khera) 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI 2021 Global Symposium The 2021 OHDSI Global Symposium featured plenary presentation on both OHDSIs Impact on the COVID-19 Pandemic, a well a on the Journey to Reliable Evidence. The main day included the State of the Community Presentation, the Collaborator Showcase, and a memorable Closing Ceremony that focused on OHDSIs work through the perspective of a patient.There were also a pair of activities, including the first OHDSI Reproducibility Challenge workshop, and a full-day tutorial on building conceptsets.All material from the 2021 Symposium will be shared on this page in the coming weeks. The first two sessions, a well a link to the collaborator showcase presentations, are currently available below. Day 1: OHDSI's Impact on the COVID-19 Pandemic Plenary Presentations The Sept. 14 plenary during the 2021 OHDSI Symposium featured the State of the Community presentation, update from the global OHDSI network, and then a series of talk about OHDSIs impact on the COVID-19 pandemic.0:00 OHDSI State of the Community (George Hripcsak) 20:26 OHDSI network update: US (Kristin Kostka) 27:47 OHDSI network update: Europe (Peter Rijnbeek) 36:18 OHDSI network update: Asia Pacific (Mui Van Zandt) 44:06 Incidence rate method sensitivity and anchoring (Anna Ostropolets) 53:50 Phenotype sensitivity (Rupa Makadia) 1:03:31 The EUMAEUS project: Overview and main result (Martijn Schuemie) Watch the Day 1 Plenary Talks Here 1:19:13 The EUMAEUS project: Applying method sequentially (Faaizah Arshad) 1:24:23 Prediction sensitivity to data and design choice (Jenna Reps) 1:34:48 Review of prior COVID-19 estimation and prediction study (Seng Chan You) 1:42:50 The CHARYBDIS project 18 month review (Talita Duarte-Salles) 1:53:55 Drug utilization trend in COVID-19 (Albert Prats-Uribe) 1:58:41 AESI incidence rate (Xintong Li) 2:09:23 The SCYLLA project (Marc Suchard) 2:15:32 Studying vaccine effectiveness (George Hripcsak) Reaction Panel Following the plenary presentations, we were thrilled to have four healthcare leader join u to engage in a panel discussion. The recording is available to the right.CatherineCohet, PhD Pharmacoepidemiology/RWE Expert, Data Analytics & Methods Task Force, European Medicines AgencyRichardForshee, PhDAssociate Director for Research at U.S. Food and Drug Administration, CBER/OBEMagdalenaSobieszczyk, MDHarold C. Neu Professor of Infectious Diseases (in Medicine) at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Watch the Day 1 Reaction Panel Here JoanneWaldstreicher, MDChief Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson Moderator:Daniel Prieto-Alhambra MD, MSc, PhDProfessor of Pharmaco- and Device Epidemiology, University of Oxford Day 2: The Journey To Reliable Evidence Plenary Presentations The Sept. 15 plenary during the 2021 OHDSI Symposium focused on the journey to reliable evidence. The first portion of the plenary included four presentations, which are time-stamped below.0:00 Glucagon-Like Peptide 1 Receptor Agonists and Chronic Lower Respiratory Disease Exacerbations Among Patients With Type 2 Diabetes (Yasser Albogami) 15:56 Lessons From The OHDSI Reproducibility Workshop (Anna Ostropolets)29:13 The Journey to Reliable Evidence: Reproducibility (Mitchell Conover) 54:47 The Journey to Reliable Evidence: Generalizability (Christian Reich) Watch the Day 2 Plenary Talks Here Reaction Panel Following the plenary talk on The Journey to Reliable Evidence, we were excited to welcome three leader in the field to engage in a reactionary panel. The panelist and moderator are listed below:Shirley V. Wang, PhDAssistant Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School; Associate Epidemiologist in the Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics at Brigham and Womens HospitalThamirAlshammari, PhD, MS, RPHAdvisor, Saudi Food and Drug Authority Executive President; Associate Professor of Pharmacy Practice. Senior researcher, Medication Safety Research Chair, King Saud University. VP, ISPE Middle East (Saudi Arabia) Watch the Day 2 Reaction Panel Here RohanKhera, MD, MSAssistant Professor of Medicine, Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Yale School of Medicine (United States) Watch the Reaction Panel here. Moderator:KristinKostka, MPH Director, OHDSI Center at the Roux InstituteatNortheastern University OHDSI Reproducibility Service/Roux Center Presentation by David Madigan Closing Ceremony Presentation by Patrick Ryan, Jamie Weaver Collaborator Showcase The Collaborator Showcase received a record number of submission this year, and following a peer-review process, there were more than 100 submission of posters, software demos, and lightning talk that comprised the 2021 Collaborator Showcase. The presentation featured OHDSI advancement in observational data standard and management, methodological research, open-source analytics development, and clinical applications. Lightning Talks Observational Data Standards and Management Data Quality Dashboard Used to Improve Data Quality in the EHDEN Network Presenters: Clair Blacketer, Erica Voss Beyond Clinical: Integrating Research Assay Data into the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics Common Data Model (OHDSI CDM) through the Surgical Critical Care Initiative (SC2i) Presenter: Chandra Almond Extending the OMOP CDM to store the output of natural language processing pipeline Presenter: Monica Arrue Validation of the Genomic Variant Vocabulary against TCGA Presenter: Denys Kaduk Methodological Research Evaluating the performance of Austins standardized difference heuristic in observational cohort study with varying sample size Presenter: Mitchell Conover Leveraging APHRODITE to identify bias in statistical phenotyping algorithm Presenter: Juan Banda Assessing the impact of race on glomerular filtration rate prediction Presenter: Linying Zhang A Prediction Model Library Presenter:Ross Williams Clinical Applications Detection of prone positioning in hospitalized COVID patient using NLP Presenter: Patrick Alba From metric to intelligence using the OMOP CDM and Patient-Level-Prediction package a a foundation decision support tool Presenter:Ismail Ggenur Detecting PTSD and self-harm among US Veterans using positive unlabeled Learning Presenter: Christophe Lambert Revealing unknown benefit of existing medication to aid the discovery of new treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder Presenter:David Kern Community The European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) Sharing the OHDSI Journey and a Vision of Evidence Today, Not in Several tomorrow Presenter: Nigel Hughes Revealing unknown benefit of existing medication to aid the discovery of new treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder Presenters:Kees van Bochove, Asieh Golozar Covid-19 Pandemic impact on mental health Related condition Via multi-database network: a Longitudinal Observational study (CERVELLO) Presenter:Hao Luo Large Scale Dissemination of OHDSI Methods and Tools: Introducing a New Community Resource, the OHDSI Center at the Roux Institute at Northeastern University Presenter:Kristin Kostka 2024 powered by Top | | | OHDSI 2021 Collaborator Showcase Observational Data Standards and Management (Amelia J Averitt, Alexandra Orlova, Alexander Davydov, Oleg Zhuk, Michael N Cantor, Gregory Klebanov) (Tatiana Banokina, Dmitry Dymshyts, Alexandra Orlova, Alexander Kraynov, Alexander Davydov) (Sofia Bazakou, Maxim Moinat, Alessia Peviani, Anne van Winzum, Stefan Payralbe, Vaclav Papez, Spiros Denaxas) (Clair Blacketer) (Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Erica A Voss, Clair Blacketer, Maria Aragn, Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Carlen Reyes, Sebastiaan van Sandijk, Lars Halvorsen, Peter R Rijnbeek, Talita Duarte-Salles) (Priya Desai, Somalee Datta) (Freija Descamps, Roberto Guarnieri, Lars Halvorsen, Jared Houghtaling) (Dmitry Dymshyts, Vlad Korsik, Denys Kaduk, Mike Nerovnya, Alex Davydov, Christian Reich, Michael Gurley, Asieh Golozar, Shilpa Ratwani, Joseph Sirintrapun , W. Scott Campbell, Rimma Belenkaya) (Michael Gurley, Asieh Golozar, Robert Miller, Rimma Belenkaya, Shilpa Ratwani, Shanta Bethusamy, Andrew Williams, Joseph Sirintrapun, Christian Reich) (Lars Halvorsen, Freija Descamps, Jared Houghtaling, Benjamin Burke, Francine Birungi, Clarisse Musanabaganwa, Jean Baptiste Byiringiro, Stefan Jansen, Celestin Twizere, Kizito Nkurikiyeyezu, Charles Ruranga, Aurore Nishimwe, Regina Mugeni, Jean N Utumatwishima, Damas Kabakambira, Sabin Nsanzimana, Marc Twagirumukiza) (Denys Kaduk, Adam Black, Yupeng Li, Lixia Yao) (Michael Kallfelz, Dmitry Dymshyts, Meera Patel, Christian Reich, Jeremy Warner, Rimma Belenkaya) (Melanie Philofsky, Gregory Klebanov) (Seongwon Lee, Wanhee Lee, Seunghyung Lee, Ju Young Kim, Rae Woong Park) (Michael Lubke, Tapati Mazumdar, Murat Sincan, Catherine Hajek) (Anthony Molinaro, Frank DeFalco) (Daniel Park, Elise Gatsby, Benjamin Viernes, Kushan Hewa, Scott L. DuVall, Kristine E. Lynch) (Melanie Philofsky, Ufuoma Olakpe) (Shilpa Ratwani, Asieh Golozar, Michael Gurley, Andrew Williams, Robert Miller, Christian Reich, Dmitry Dymshyts, Michael Kallfelz, Rimma Belenkaya) (Miguel Romero Calvo, Yupeng Li, Tesfagabir Meharizghi, Weilin Meng, Selvan Senthivel, Saman Sarraf, Lin Lee Cheong) (Jay G. Ronquillo, William T. Lester) (Michael Gurley, Asieh Golozar, Rimma Belenkaya, Tatyana Sandler) (Ben Smith, Trent Peterson, Kristina Bloomquist) (Benjamin Viernes, Elizabeth E Hanchrow, Steven M Johnson, Elise Gatsby, Michael E Matheny, Daniel J Park, Jill M Whitaker, Scott L Duvall, Kristine E Lynch) (Salvatore Volpe, Karthik Natarajan)LIGHTNING TALK: (Clair Blacketer, Erica Voss, Frank DeFalco, Maxim Moinat, Peter R Rijnbeek)LIGHTNING TALK: (Chandra Almond, William Patino, Ravi Sanka, Seth Schobel, Andrew MacKelfresh, Allan Kirk, Eric A. Elster)LIGHTNING TALK: (Monica Arrue, Sandra Pulido, Alvaro Abella, Gabriel Maeztu, Alberto Labarga)* 2021 Recipient of Best Community Contribution AwardLIGHTNING TALK: (Denys Kaduk, Asieh Golozar, Peter Robinson, Michael Gurley, Seng Chan You, Shin Seojeong, Shaadi Mehr, Andrew Williams, Rimma Belenkaya, Shilpa Ratwani, Ron Miller, Christian Reich) Methodological Research (Faaizah Arshad, Lana YH Lai, George Hripcsak, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Martijn J. Schuemie, Marc A. Suchard) (Luis Alberto Robles Hernandez, Tiffany J. Callahan, Juan M. Banda) (Peter-Paul Willemse, Katharina Beyer, Muhammed Imran Omar, Ronald Herrera, Megan Molnar, Isabella Greco, Riccardo Campi, Samuel Fatoba, Bertrand De Meulder; Susan Evans, Nazanin Zounemat Kermani, Sebastiaan Remmers, Christian Reich, Shilpa Ratwani, Asieh Golozar Robert Snijder, Mauro Gacci, Ariel Achtman, Nigel Hughes, Peter Rijnbeek, Emma Smith; Carl Steinbeier, Mieke Van Hemelrijck; Anders Bjartell, James Ndow, Alex Asiimwe, Monique Roobol, Giorgio Gandaglia) (Pooja M. Desai, Anna Ostropolets, Lauren R. Richter, Harry Reyes Nieva, Matthew Spotnitz, Victor A. Rodriguez, Tony Y. Sun, Karthik Natarajan) (Mackenzie Edmondson, Chongliang Luo, Nazmul Islam, David Asch, Jiang Bian, Yong Chen) (Tal El Hay, Chen Yanover) (Leena Elhussein, Ed Burn, Antonella Delmestri, Victoria Y Strauss, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra) (Stephen P Fortin, Martijn J Schuemie) (Stephen P Fortin (Stephen P Fortin, Jenna Reps) (Egill Fridgeirsson, David Sontag, Peter Rijnbeek) (Elise Gatsby, Benjamin Viernes, Michael E Matheny, Scott L DuVall, Kristine E Lynch (Asieh Golozar, Christian Reich) (Yuchen Guo, Sarah Khalid, Victoria Strauss, M Sanni Ali, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra) (Elisa Henke, Yuan Peng, Ines Reinecke, Michele Zoch, Martin Sedlmayr) (Solomon Ioannou, Egill Fridgeirsson, Jan Kors, Peter Rijnbeek) (Michael Kallfelz, Andrew Williams, Tom Pollard, Anna Tsetkova, Manlik Kwong, Gigi Lipori, Jeff Osborn, Vojtech Huser) (Elpida Kontsioti, Simon Maskell, Munir Pirmohamed) (Rupa Makadia, Azza Shoaibi, Gowtham Rao, Jill Hardin, Joel Swerdel, Stephen Fortin, Xintong Li, Anna Ostropolets, Anthony G Sena, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Marc A Suchard, George Hripcsak, Patrick B. Ryan) (Aniek F. Markus, Jan A. Kors, Peter R. Rijnbeek) (Anna Ostropolets, Talita Duarte-Salles, Xintong Li, Rupa Makadia, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Gowtham Rao, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Martijn Schuemie, Anthony G. Sena, Azza Shaoibi, Marc A. Suchard, Patrick B. Ryan, George Hripcsak) * 2021 Recipient of Best Community Contribution Award (Jenna Reps, Patrick Ryan) (Ty Stanford, Nicole Pratt, on behalf of the EUMAEUS task force) (Joel Swerdel, Martijn Schuemie, Patrick B. Ryan) (Ross Williams, Jenna Reps, Peter Rijnbeek) (Cynthia Yang, Jan A. Kors, Solomon Ioannou, Luis H. John, Aniek F. Markus, Alexandros Rekkas, Maria de Ridder, Tom Seinen, Ross D. Williams, Peter R. Rijnbeek) (Yonatan Bilu, Chen Yanover)LIGHTNING TALK: (Mitchell Conover, Azza Shoaibi, Joshua Ide, Martijn Schuemie)LIGHTNING TALK: (Juan M. Banda, Nigam H. Shah, Vyjeyanthi S Periyakoil)LIGHTNING TALK: (Linying Zhang, Lauren R. Richter, George Hripcsak)LIGHTNING TALK: (Ross D. Williams, Jenna M. Reps, Peter R. Rijnbeek) Open-Source Analytics Development (Kimberley Dickinson, Hanieh Razzaghi, Levon Utidjian, Amy Goodwin Davies, Evanette Burrows, Daniel Eckrich, Pete Camacho, Charles Bailey) * 2021 Recipient of Best Community Contribution Award (James P. Gilbert, Erica A. Voss, Christopher A. Knoll, Patrick B. Ryan) (Amy Goodwin Davies, Evanette Burrows, Ashley Batugo, Kimberley Dickinson, Sara Deakyne Davies, Richard Hoyt, Janet Zahner, Vikas R. Dharnidharka, Bradley P. Dixon, Joseph T. Flynn, Mark M. Mitsnefes, William E. Smoyer, L. Charles Bailey, Hanieh Razzaghi, Michelle R. Denburg) (Michael J. Gurley, Jeremy Warner, Yulia Bushmanova, Firas Wehbe) (Fabio Boudis, Laura Jezequel, Malle Baillet, Antoine Lamer) (Elena G. Lara, Maxim Moinat) (Kelly Li, Marc Suchard, Jianxiao Yang) * 2021 Recipient of Best Community Contribution Award (Ajit Londhe, Andrew Toler, Yanmei Lu, Rajbir Chadha, Garry Seddon, Deborah Kim, Gregory Klebanov, Alexey Manoylenko, Anton Abushkevich, Sergey Suvorov) (Aniek F. Markus, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Jan A. Kors, Katia Verhamme) (Kadri Kunnapuu, Solomon Ioannou, Kadri Ligi, Raivo Kolde, Sven Laur, Jaak Vilo, Peter Rijnbeek, Sulev Reisberg) (Jianxiao Yang, Marc Suchard) (Jacob Zelko)Software Demo: (Frank J DeFalco, Alan Andryc, Anthony Molinaro, Clair Blacketer)Software Demo: (Yilu Fang, Yingcheng Sun, Hao Liu, Zhehuan Chen, Chunhua Weng)Software Demo: (Nicholas Giangreco, Salvatore G Volpe, Meghana Tandon, Kamileh Narsinh, Ben Busby)Software Demo: (James P. Gilbert, Rachel E. Teneralli, Erica A. Voss, Christopher A. Knoll, David M. Kern, M Soledad Cepeda, Patrick B. Ryan)Software Demo: (Anton Ivanov, Samus Sergey, Alexander Efimov, Maxim Draschinsky)Software Demo: (Christopher Knoll, Anthony Sena)Software Demo: (Jose Posada, Priya Desai, Konstantin Yaroshovets, Gregory Klebanov)Software Demo: (Gowtham Rao, Azza Shoaibi, Jamie Gilbert, Martijn Schuemie)Software Demo: (Michael Riley, Jon Duke)Software Demo: (Parthasarathy Suryanarayanan, Prithwish Chakraborty, Piyush Madan, Nelson Bore, William Ogallo,, Rachita Chandra, Mohamed Ghalwash, I. Buleje, Sekou Lionel Remy, Shreyans Sethi, Shilpa Mahatma, P. Meyerr, Jianying Hu) Clinical Applications and Community (Alan Andryc, Rachel Weinstein, Steven Sacavage, Marsha Tharakan, Rupa Makadia) (Karoline Bendix Bruner, Mikail Ggenur, Viviane Annabelle Lin, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Johan Clausen, Eldar Allakhverdiiev, Rasmus Peuliche Vogelsang, Ismail Ggenur) (Johan Clausen, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Karoline Bendix Bruner, Mikail Ggenur, Viviane Annabelle Lin, Eldar Allakhverdiiev, Julie Sparholt Walbech, Ismail Ggenur) (Stephen P Fortin, Jeroen Geurtsen, Michal Sarnecki, Joachim Doua, Jamie Colasurdo, Joel Swerdel) (Mikail Ggenur, Viviane Lin, Adamantia Tsouchnika, Eldar Allakhverdiiev, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Karoline Bendix Bruner, Julie Sparholt Walbech, Ismail Ggenur) (Jill Hardin, Rupa Makadia, Emily Brouwer, Shawn Black, Irene Lara-Corrales, Lucia Z Diaz, Joslyn Sciacca Kirby, Cynthia Marie Carver DeKlotz) (Chungsoo Kim, Sandy Jeong Rhie, Rae Woong Park) (Sun Geu Chae, Sang-Heon Kim, Yoon-Kyoung Sung, Yeesuk Kim) (Viviane Lin, Adamantia Tsouchnika, Eldar Allakhverdiiev, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Mikail Ggenur, Johan Clausen, Karoline Bendix Bruner; Ismail Ggenur) (Alexandros Rekkas, Annika M. Jodicke, David van Klaveren, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Peter R. Rijnbeek) (James Rogers, Casey N. Ta, Cong Liu, Ali Soroush, Ying Kuen Cheung, George Hripcsak, Chunhua Weng) (Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Karoline Bendix Bruner, Mikail Ggenur, Viviane Annabelle Lin, Johan Clausen, Eldar Allakhverdiiev, Adamantia Tsouchnika, Rasmus Peuliche Vogelsang, Ismail Ggenur) (Matthew Spotnitz, Anna Ostropolets, Karthik Natarajan, Victor G. Castano, Genna J. Waldman, Michael Argenziano, Ruth Ottman, George Hripcsak, Hyunmi Choi, Brett E. Youngerman) (David Vizcaya, George Argyriou, Jingsong Cui, Sarah Seager, Henry Morgan-Stewart, Christian Reich) (Rasmus Peuliche Vogelsang, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Eldar Allakhverdiiev, Ismail Ggenur)Lightning Talk: (Patrick R. Alba, Jose Posada, Jason Weatherald, Kristine Lynch, Annie Bowles, Nigam Shah, Olga V. Patterson, Scott L. DuVall, Evan Minty)Lightning Talk: (Adamantia Tsouchnika, Andreas Weinberger Rosen, Ismail Ggenur)Lightning Talk: (Praveen Kumar, Nicolas R. Lauve, Sharon E. Davis, Sharidan K. Parr, Daniel Park, Michael E. Matheny, Gerardo Villarreal, George Uhl, Yiliang Zhu, Mauricio Tohen, Douglas J. Perkins, Christophe G. Lambert) * 2021 Recipient of Best Community Contribution AwardLightning Talk: (David Kern, Rachel E. Teneralli, Christopher M. Flores, James P. Gilbert, Christopher Knoll, Gayle M. Wittenberg, Patrick B. Ryan, M. Soledad Cepeda)Lightning Talk: (Nigel Hughes, Daniel Prieto Alhambra, Carlos Diaz, Peter Rijnbeek)Lightning Talk: (Kees van Bochove, Carl Steinbeiber, Asieh Golozar, Bertrand De Meulder, Susan Evans Axelsson, Giorgio Gandaglia, Katharina Beyer, Muhammad Imran Omar, James NDow, Anders Bjartell, Nazanin Zounemat Kermani, Ronald Herrera, Sebastiaan Remmers, Christian Reich, Shilpa Ratwani, Alex Asiimwe, Femke van Diggelen, Ketharini Senthilkumar, Robert Snijder, Ariel H. Achtman, Monique J. Roobol, Nigel Hughes, Peter Rijnbeek, Maxim Moinat, Emma Jane Smith and the PIONEER consortium)Lightning Talk: (Carmen Olga Torre, Kenneth Man, Hao Luo, Wallis Lau, Ian Wong)Lightning Talk: (Kristin Kostka, Justin Manjourides, Andrew Williams, Christian Reich, David Madigan) 2024 powered by Top | | | 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium Symposium artwork courtesy of OHDSI collaborator Sarah Seager. The 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium brought together a global research community for 18 hour of open science, international collaboration and community fun on Oct. 19. The day included presentation from community members, panel that brought together leader from a variety of major healthcare organizations, a well a network sessions, the annual collaborator showcase, and plenty more. Please check out this page for complete update from the day, and follow the OHDSI Twitter and LinkedIn feed for the #OHDSISocialShowcase, which will highlight all presentation from the 2020 Collaborator Showcase. The four-day event also included five virtual tutorial on Oct. 18, and a two-day study-a-thon (Oct. 20-21) thatfocused on two cardiovascular clinical prediction model (CPM) routinely used in clinical practice: the Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI) and the Pooled Cohort Equations. That collaborative effort set the foundation for multiple network study . Global Symposium Sessions State of the Community Presenter: George Hripcsak Video: Slides: George Hripcsak, director of the Columbia University OHDSI Coordinating Center, provided an update on the state of the OHDSI community, a well a a review of OHDSI publication over the last 12 months. Several working group lead and representative of OHDSI collaboration also provide updates. Plenary Session:Large Scale Network Phenotype Development, Evaluation and Characterization Presenters: Patrick Ryan, Anna Ostropolets, Gowtham Rao, Anthony Sena, Talita Duarte-Salles, Nomie Elhadad Video: Slides: Members of the OHDSI community present the plenary session onLarge Scale Network Phenotype Development, Evaluation and Characterization. Specific topic can be seen on the image to the right. Timestamps: 0:00 Patrick Ryan (A Framework for Phenotype Development and Evaluation) 10:59 Anna Ostropolets (Concept Prevalence an OHDSI Network Study; Design Diagnostics PHOEBE) 32:07 Gowtham Rao (Data Diagnostics; OHDSI Phenotype Library) 55:16 Anthony Sena (A Framework for Large-Scale Characterization) 1:07:43 Talita Duarte-Salles (CHARYBDIS Large-Scale Characterization of COVID-19 Disease Natural History) 1:20:15 Dani Prieto-Alhambra (SCYLLA Large-Scale Characterization of COVID-19 Treatment Utilization) 1:30:30 Nomie Elhadad (HERA Large-Scale Characterization of Health Equity) 1:44:02 Patrick Ryan (Concluding Remarks) Panel:Building Trust: Evidence and it Communication Panelists:Amy Abernethy (Principal Deputy Commissioner of the U.S. FDA), Patti Brennan (Director of the National Library of Medicine, NIH), Magdalena Skipper (Editor in Chief, Nature), Deborah Nelson (Associate Professor of Investigative Journalism, Univ. of Maryland), Roni Caryn Rabin (science reporter for the New York Times) Moderator: George Hripcsak Video: COVID-19 wa a new infection inflicting enormous suffering with no known treatment and little known about it transmission. The scientific community roared into action, quickly generating evidence from observational data and beginning numerous trials. The editorial and peer-review process wa overwhelmed, and the urgent need for evidence required rapid assessment of the study rigor and importance. Highly publicized retraction and correction contributed to a general feeling that a large proportion of the published work wa substandard and misleading. The OHDSI community strives to avoid substandard work by providing a public protocol before beginning research, reporting result only from multi-institution studies, verifying result with a full set of diagnostics, executing data quality checks, reporting data provenance, etc. Such rigor take time, however, and given the current paradigm of celebrating being first, there remains little opportunity to provide reliable evidence after the journal have accepted early questionable results. Such undue focus on speed give the unfortunate impression that once sufficient unreliable evidence ha been published, reliable answer are no longer needed. Panel:2nd Annual Women of OHDSI Leadership Forum Panelists:Vivian Lee (President of Health Platforms, Verily Life Sciences),Robyn Jones (Senior Medical Director, Womens Health, Johnson & Johnson),Rear Admiral Deborah Hopson (Senior Vice President, Public Health Systems Innovation, MayaTech Corporation),Subha Madhavan (Chief Data Scientist, Associate Dean/Associate Professor of Oncology and Biomedical Informatics, Georgetown University) Moderators:Ru-fong Cheng (Senior Medical Director, Womens Health, Johnson & Johnson) and Maura Beaton (Women of OHDSI Workgroup Leader, Columbia University) Video: The Women of OHDSI Leadership Forum, so we were thrilled to bring it back for our Global Symposium. Once again, some leading woman in healthcare joined our leadership forum to discus their careers, the field and provide mentorship to the many woman (and men) in our community who are at varying stage on their own journey. Collaborator Showcase There were more than 100 presentation of OHDSI research and collaboration at this year Collaborator Showcase. Please go through the poster and software demo on this page to learn more about all this exciting work. We also had 12 lightning talk a part of the collaborator showcase, and they are listed below. Lightning Talks:Data Standards and Methods Research (Erica Voss, Janssen R&D) (Jose Posada, Stanford) (Joel Swerdel, Janssen R&D) (RuiJun Chen, Geisinger) (Rimma Belenkaya, Memorial Sloan Kettering) (Asieh Golozar, Regeneron) Lightning Talks: Clinical Application and Evidence Dissemination (Henrik John, Erasmus MC) (Jaehyun Kim, Columbia University) (Rupa Makadia, Janssen R&D) (Christophe Lambert, University of New Mexico) (Daniel Morales, University of Dundee) (Lisa Evans, Baldwin School) Closing Talk Presenter: Patrick Ryan Patrick Ryan close out the 2020 OHDSI Global Symposium with thought about the OHDSI Journey in 2020 through the COVID-19 pandemic, introduces the Titan Awards presentation, and discus some of the community proudest moments. Cheers! Video: Family Feud Past Titan Award winner teamed up to see who knew the OHDSI Community best. Join the fun in these two episode of OHDSI Family Feud: Battle of the Titans! Videos: 2024 powered by Top | | | 2020 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase 2020 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase Observational Data Standards and Management Posters (Kristine Lynch, Elizabeth Hanchrow, Elise Gatsby, Benjamin Viernes, Daniel Park, Scott L DuVall, Michael E Matheny) (Vojtech Huser) (Xialin Wang, Jing Li, Mui Van Zandt, Frank DiMartini, Anthony Reckard, Qi Yang) (Xinzhuo Jiang, Ning Shang, Anna Ostropolets, Chunhua Weng, Karthik Natarajan) (Chris Roeder, Katy Sadowski, Maxim Moinat, Philip Solovyev, Sonia Araujo) * recipient of 2020 Best Contribution in Observational Data Standards and Management (Dmitry Dymshyts, Andrew Williams, Christian Reich, Haoyan Cai, Emma Cable, Qi Yang, Mui Van Zandt, Jeremy Leigh, Kristin Kostka, Dongyun Lee, Xinwei Zhang, Torre, Carmen Olga, Jenna Reps, Eunyoung A. Lee) (Aize Cao, Liam Rose, Todd H. Wagner, Sharidan K. Parr, Kristine E. Lynch, Scott L. DuVall, Michael E. Matheny) (Clair Blacketer, Mui Van Zandt, Jose Posada, Nigam Shah, Seojeong Shin, Gyeol Song, Yunpeng Li, Mornin Feng, Marcel De Wilde, Peter Rijnbeek) (Luis Pinheiro, Jan Kors, Peter Rijnbeek) (Vaclav Papez, Maxim Moinat, Richard Dobson, Folkert Asselbergs, Spiros Denaxas) (Rachael DiSantostefano, Erica Voss, Clair Blacketer) (Maria Teresa Garcia Morales, Noelia Garca Barrio, Miguel Pedrera Jimenez, Pablo Serrano Balazote, Luis Snchez Perruca, Montserrat Hernndez Pascual, Agustn Gmez de la Cmara) (Denys Kaduk, Violetta Komar, Asieh Golozar, Peter Robinson, Alex H. Wagner, Michael Gurley, Seng Chan You, Shin Seojeong, Shaadi Mehr, Andrew Williams, Rimma Belenkar, Meera Patel, Shilpa Ratwani, Ron Miller, Christian Reich) (Emma Vos, Jolanda Strubel, Kees van Bochove, Tess Korthout, Peyman Mohtashami, Ilaria Maresi, Maxim Moinat) (Violetta Komar, Dmitry Dymshyts, Polina Talapova, Yevhenii Bezeha, Christian Reich, Aleksander Davydov) (Selva Muthu Kumaran Sathappan, Young Seok Jeon, Trung Kien Dang, Su Chi Lim, MBBS, Yi-Ming Shao, E Shyong Tai, Mengling Feng) (Mathilde Fruchart, Adrien Parrot, Nicolas Paris, Mouhamed Moussa, Niels Martignene, Antoine Lamer) (Melanie M. Philofsky) (Marcel de Wilde, Mees Mosseveld, Steven Le Meur, Sofia Zastavnik, Gianmario Candore, Peter Rijnbeek) (Jodie Hillen, Nicole Pratt, Ty Stanford) (Yaoyun Zhang, Jing Li, Mui Van Zandt) (Robinette Renner, Kristina Bloomquist, Christian Reich, Kristin Kostka, Ben Smith, Trent Peterson) (Tiffany Callahan, Michael Kahn) (Michael Kallfelz, Alexander Davydov Alexandra Orlova, Eva-Maria Didden, Rose Ong, Patricia Biedermann, Graham Wetherill, Gregory Klebanov) (Anna Ostropolets,RuiJun Chen, Matthew Spotnitz, Runsheng Wang, Patrick Ryan, George Hripcsak) (Yupeng Li, Adam Black, Gretchen A. Baltus, Carolyn Cho, Vasu Chandrasekaran, Erik Dasbach, Lixia Yao) (Clair Blacketer, Erica Voss) (Benjamin Viernes, Kristine E. Lynch, Brian Robison, Elise Gatsby, Scott L DuVall, Michael E Matheny) (Desiree Unselt, Ravi Sanka, Seth Schobel, William Andy MacKelfresh, Eric A. Elster) (Dougie Boyle, Roger Ward, Daniel Capurro, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Teng Liaw, Nicole Pratt) (Polina Talapova, Timur Vakhitov) (Vladislav Korsik, Dmitry Dymshyts, Michael Kallfelz, Rimma Belenkaya, Michael Gurley, Christian Reich) (Nadav Rappoport, Nir Makover, Guy Livne, Binyamin Abu, Sivan Ran, Robyn Robin, Gil Frenkel, Tomer Hadad, Naama Perry-Cohen) (Tan Hui Xing, Cynthia Sung, Chahed Haroun, Ang Pei San, Tan Su Yin Doreen, Dorajoo Sreemanee Raaj, Teo Chun Hwee Desmond) Lightning Talks (presenter in bold) (Nige Hughes, Peter Rijnbeek, Henrik John) (Erica A Voss, Martijn J Schuemie, Peter R Rijnbeek) (Rimma Belenkaya, Michael J Gurley, Asieh Golozar, Dmitry Dymshyt, Robert T. Miller, Andrew E Williams, Shilpa Ratwani, Anastasios Siapos, Vladislav Korsik, Jeremy Warner,W. Scott Campbell, Donna Rivera, Tatiana Banokina, Elizaveta Modina, Shantha Bethusamy, Henry Morgan Stewart, Meera Patel, Ruijun Chen, Thomas Falconer, Rae Woong Park, Seng Chan You, Hokyun Jeon, Soe Jeong Shin, Christian Reich) Methodological Research Posters (Ethan Steinberg) (Stephen R. Pfohl, Agata Foryciarz, Nigam H. Shah) (Azza Shoaibi, Stephen Fortin, Rachel Weinstein, Jesse A. Berlin, Patrick Ryan) (Stephen Fortin, Stephen Johnston, Martijn Schuemie) (Mackenzie Edmondson, Chongliang Luo, Rui Duan, Mitchell Maltenfort, Justine Shults, Patrick B. Ryan, Christopher B. Forrest, Yong Chen) (Jenna M. Reps) (Chen Yanover, Guy Amit, Irena Girshovitz, Karni Marcus, Nir Kalkstein, Pinchas Akiva) (Jill H. Hardin, Jenna M. Reps) (REWARD-B) Platform (Rachel Teneralli, James P. Gilbert, Christopher A. Knoll, David M. Kern, Patrick B. Ryan, M Soledad Cepeda) (Yong Chen, Rui Duan, Chongliang Luo, Jiayi Tong, Mackenzie Edmondson, Hua Xu, Patrick Ryan, Martijn Schuemie) (Mitchell Conover, Mitchell M. Conover, James Weaver, Dina Gifkins) (Juan Banda, Ramya Tekumalla) (Joshua D. Ide, Liyuan Ma) (Amelia Averitt, Adler Perotte) * recipient of 2020 Best Contribution in Methodological Research (Rowdy de Groot, Ronald Cornet, Nicolette de Keizer, Nirupama Benis, Ferishta Raiez) (Iris Nonneman, W. Karman, K. Antonio, V. Tozzi, J. Krijgsman van Spangenberg) (Rowdy de Groot, Ronald Cornet, Benis, Ferishta Raiez) (Bei Li, Sifei Han, Lingyun Shi, Lezhou Wu, Fuchiang(Rich) Tsui) (Linying Zhang, Yixin Wang, Anna Ostropolets, Ruijun Chen, David M. Blei, George Hripcsak) (Chao Pang, Krishna S. Kalluri, Xinzhuo Jiang, Karthik Natarajan) (Tom Seinen, Jan A. Kors, Erik M. van Mulligen, Peter R. Rijnbeek) Lightning Talks (RuiJun Chen, Martijn J. Schuemie, Marc A. Suchard, Anna Ostropolets, Linying Zhang, Patrick B. Ryan, George Hripcsak) (Joel Swerdel, Martijn Schuemie, Gayle Murray, Patrick B. Ryan) Open-Source Analytics Development Posters (Juan Banda) (Junghwan Lee) (Alexandros Rekkas, David Van Klaveren, Peter Rijnbeek) * recipient of 2020 Best Contribution in Open-Source Analytics Development (Gregory Klebanov, Alexander Davydov, Mui VanZandt, Vitaly Koulakov, Anton Abushkevich, Dmitry Dymshyts, Rae Woong Park) (James Gilbert, Rachel E. Teneralli, Christopher A. Knoll, David M. Kern, M Soledad Cepeda, Patrick B. Ryan) Lightning Talks (Jose Posada) Software Demos (Christian Reich, Katie Mannering, Tony Aldridge, Sonia Araujo) (Joo Rafael Almeida, Andr Pedrosa, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Marcel de Wilde, Michel Van Speybroeck, Maxim Moinat, Alina Trifan, Srgio Matos, Jos Lus Oliveira) (Sheena Tomko, Cristina Aurrecoechea, John Brestelli, Brian P. Brunk, Danielle Callan, Dave Falke, Steve Fischer, Danica Helb, Jay Humphrey, John Judkins, Jessica C. Kissinger, Nupur Kittur, Brianna Lindsay, David S. Roos, Christian J. Stoeckert Jr, Steph Wever Schulman, Jie Zheng) (Chi Yuan, Alex Butler, Yingcheng Sun, Chunhua Weng, Hao Liu) (Alan A. Andryc, Clair Blacketer, Frank DeFalco, Jenna Reps, Patrick B. Ryan) (James Weaver, Martijn Schuemie, Patrick Ryan) (Maxim Moinat, Florence Giesen, Joris Borgdorff, Long Khoa, Keyvan Hedayati, Julia Kurps, Andries Purnal) (Hao Liu, Chi Yuan, Alex Butler, Yingcheng Sun, Chunhua Weng) (James P. Gilbert, Rachel E. Teneralli, Christopher A. Knoll, David M. Kern, M Soledad Cepeda, Patrick B. Ryan) (Gregory Klebanov, Adam Black, Alexander Davydov, Christian Reich) (Jiayi Tong) Clinical Applications Posters (Jing Li, Yuan Lu, Sang Youl Rhee, Hua Xu, Nicole Pratt, Seng Chan You, Mui Van Zandt, Mengling Feng, Lei Liu, Ian Chi Kei Wong, Rae Woong Park, Jiyoung Hwang, Tatsuo Hiramatsu, Usman Iqbal, Yu-Chuan Li, Min-Huei Hsu, Christian Reich) (Xiao Dong, Jianfu, Ekin Soysal, Jiang Bian, Scott L. DuVall, Elizabeth Hanchrow, Hongfang Liu, Kristine E. Lynch, Michael Matheny, Karthik Natarajan, Lucila Ohno-Machado, Serguei Pakhomov, Ruth Madeleine Reeves, Amy M. Sitapati, Swapna Abhyankar, Theresa Cullen, Jami Deckard, Xiaoqian Jiang, Robert Murphy, Hua Xu) (Martina Recalde, Elena Roel; Andrea Pistillo, Anthony Sena, Kristin Kostka, Christian G. Reich, Patrick Ryan, Jose D. Posada, Nigam H. Shah, Thomas Falconer, Karthik Natarjan, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Talita Duarte-Salles) (Jennifer CE Lane, Kristin Kostka, Edward Burn, Maura Beaton, Martina Recalde, Marta Pineda-Moncusi, Dominic Furniss, Christian Reich, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra) (James Rogers, Cong Liu, Ying Kuen Cheung, Chunhua Weng) (Wallis CY Lau, Kenneth KC Man, Carmen Olga Torre, Henry Morgan Stewart, Sarah Seager, Mui Van Zandt, Christian Reich, Ian CK Wong) (Seng Chan You, Seung In Seo, Seo Jeong Shin, Thomas Falconer, Talita Duarte-Salles, Hyung Joon Joo, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Woon Geon Shin, Chan Hyuk Park, Rae Woong Park) (Anastasiya Nestsiarovich, Praveen Kumar, Nicolas R Lauve, Nathaniel G. Hurwitz, Aurlien J. Mazurie, Daniel C. Cannon, Yiliang Zhu, Stuart J. Nelson, Annette S. Crisanti, Berit Kerner, Mauricio Tohen, Douglas J. Perkins, Christophe G. Lambert) (Matthew Spotnitz) (Amy J. Goodwin Davies, Michelle R. Denburg, Timothy Bunnell, Peter E. F. Camacho, Charles Bailey, Melody M. Kitzmiller, Rui Xiao, Hanieh Razzaghi) (Shreyas Bhave, Victor A. Rodriguez, Ruijun Chen, Chao Pang, Sumit Mohan, Karthik Natarajan, Adler Perotte) (Matthew Spotnitz) (Matthew E. Spotnitz, Jenna Reps, Karthik Natarajan, Carolyn L. Westhoff) (Aniek Markus, Peter Rijnbeek, Jan Kors, Guy Brusselle, Katia Verhamme) (Matthew E. Spotnitz, Carolyn L. Westhoff, Rupa Makadia, Kristin Kostka, Henry Morgan Stewart, Patrick B. Ryan, Karthik Natarajan) (Ross D. Williams, Aniek F. Markus, Cynthia Yang, Talita Duarte Salles, Scott L. DuVall, Thomas Falconer, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Chungsoo Kim, Dr. Yeunsook Rho, Andrew Williams, Amanda Alberga, Min Ho An Mara Aragn, Carlos Areia, Edward Burn, Young Hwa Choi, Iannis Drakos, Maria Tereza Fernandes Abraho, Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, George Hripcsak, Benjamin Skov Kaas-Hansen, Prasanna L Kandukuri, Jan A. Kors, Kristin Kostka, Siaw-Teng Liaw, Kristine E. Lynch, Gerardo Machnicki, Michael E. Matheny, Daniel Morales, Fredrik Nyberg, Rae Woong Park, Albert Prats-Uribe, Nicole Pratt, Gowtham Rao, Christian G. Reich, Marcela Rivera, Tom Seinen, Azza Shoaibi, Matthew E Spotnitz, Ewout W. Steyerberg, Marc A. Suchard, Seng Chan You, Lin Zhang, Lili Zhou, Patrick B. Ryan, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Jenna M. Reps, Peter R. Rijnbeek) (Matthew Spotnitz, David A. Gudis, Jonathan B. Overdevest, Karthik Natarajan) (Ashley Batugo, Charles Phillips, Evanette Burrows, Daniel Eckrich, Melody Kitzmiller, Hanieh Razzaghi, Charles Bailey) (Edward Burn, Cristian Teb, Sergio Fernandez-Bertolin, Maria Aragon, Martina Recalde, Elena Roel, Albert Prats-Uribe, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Talita Duarte-Salles) Lightning Talks (Rupa Makadia, Urmila Chandran, Jill Hardin, Christopher Cutie) (Asieh Golozar, Anastasios Siapos, Henry Morgan Stewart, Rimma Belenkaya, Michael J Gurley, Robert T. Miller, Shilpa Ratwani, Shantha Bethusamy, Meera Patel, Thomas Falconer, Ruijun Chen, Hokyun Jeon, Rae Woong Park, Seng Chan You, Andrew E Williams, Christian Reich) (Lisa K. Evans) * recipient of 2020 Best Contribution in Clinical Applications (Anastasiya Nestsiarovich, MD, PhD;Jenna M. Reps, PhD (presented poster); Michael E. Matheny, MD, MS, MPH; Scott L. DuVall, PhD; Kristine E Lynch PhD; Maura Beaton, MS; Xinzhuo Jiang, MS; Matthew Spotnitz, MD, MPH; Stephen Robert Pfohl, BS; Nigham H. Shah, MBBS, PhD; Carmen Olga Torre, MS; Christian Reich, MD, PhD; Dong Yun Lee, MD; Sang Joon Son, MD, PhD; Seng Chan You, MD, MS; Rae Woong Park, MD, PhD; Patrick B. Ryan, PhD;Christophe G. Lambert, PhD (presented lightning talk) (Daniel R. Morales, Mitchell M. Conover, Seng Chan You, Nicole Pratt, Kristin Kostka, Talita Duarte-Salles,Sergio Fernndez-Bertoln, Maria Aragn, Scott L. DuVvall, Kristine E. Lynch, Thomas Falconer, Kees van Bochove, Cynthia Sung, Michael E. Matheny, Christophe G. Lambert, Fredrik Nyberg, Thamir M. Alshammari, Andrew E. Williams, Rae Woong Park, James Weaver, Anthony G. Sena, Martijn J. Schuemie, Peter R. Rijnbeek, Ross Williams, Jennifer Lane, Albert Prats-Uribe, Lin Zhang, Carlos Areia, Harlan M. Krumholz, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Patrick B.Ryan, George Hripcsak, Marc A. Suchard) (Jaehyun Kim) 2024 powered by Top | | | This Week In OHDSI This Week In OHDSI May 7, 2024 The May 7 community call featured a review of DevCon 2024, which served a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software. This session included several speaker and topic from the event, including: Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins University (Open-Source Overview) Vishnu Chandrabalan, Lancaster University (OHDSI/OMOP The hard way is the easy way) Roger Carlson, Spectrum Health (Moving OMOP to the Cloud with DBT and Snowflake) Lee Evans, LTS Computing LLC (Broadsea Update) Frank DeFalco, Janssen Research & Development (Technical Advisory Board (TAB) Update) Katy Sadowski, Boehringer Ingelheim (Kheiron Cohort Update) This presentation is posted below. All recording from the full DevCon 2024 session are available . Community Updates Congratulations to the team of William G. Adams, Sarah Gasman, Ariel L. Beccia and Liza Fuentes on the publication of in the Journal of Clinical and Translational Science. Congratulations to the team of Nhung TH Trinh, Annika M Jdicke, Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Saeed Hayati, Angela Lupattelli, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Hedvig ME Nordeng on the publication of in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine. The latest edition of the OHDSI newsletter , and it includes reflection on both the April Olympians and DevCon events, community updates, a collaborator showcase, publication and presentation from April, and plenty more. If you dont receive the newsletter in your email, . Montse Camprubi work at Synapse Research Management Partners. Currently the EHDEN community manager, she is leading the central coordination effort between EHDEN Data Partners and certified SMES and EHDEN experts. , Montse discus her background and career journey, recent highlight and future plan in EHDEN, the upcoming OHDSI Europe Symposium, and plenty more. Applications are being accepted to join the 2024-25 Kheiron Cohort. This program is designed to onboard new contributor into OHDSI to empower them to become active contributor and maintainers. The goal are to provide career development, create a global perspective of the ecosystem, build cross-connections between project and develop future leader for OHDSI. ! Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence. , including application details, are now available, is May 22, 2024. Marissa Fiorella shared a forum post highlighting the upcoming Symposium on Risks and Opportunities of Artificial Intelligence in Pharmaceutical Medicine (AIPM), which will be held June 10-11 at Northeastern University, and will also have a Zoom option. Some OHDSI collaborator who are either speaking or helping organize the event are David Madigan, Asieh Golozar, David Sontag, Louisa Smith, and Marc Suchard. More detail and registration information . Linying Zhang is organizing a workshop on at the 22ndInternational (AIME), happening at Salt Lake City, Utah, on July 9-12, 2024. The workshop focus on advancing the understanding and exploring the transformative role of artificial intelligence (AI) in analyzing real-world data (RWD) for real-world evidence (RWE) generation. George Hripcsakwill be delivering the opening keynote speech.The workshop will also feature scientific presentation from author with accepted paper or abstracts, and potentially a panel or debate. The intended length is 4 hours. We are calling for submission of full papers, short papers, and poster abstracts! Thesubmission deadlineisMay 31, 2024. More information is available on the or homepages. Registration is open for the , which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam. for more information and registration details. 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium is now open for the , which will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. The three-day event will feature tutorial on Day 1, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Day 2, and workgroup activity on Day 3. Day 1 will open with a single tutorial in the morning: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI. There will be four advanced tutorial during the afternoon: An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI; Developing and Evaluating Your Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) Process to the OMOP Common Data Model; So, You Think You Want To Run an OHDSI Network Study?; and Using the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies for Research. You can select your tutorial during the registration process. Collaborator Showcase submission are now being accepted, and . Submissions are due by Friday, June 21, at 8 pm ET. Notifications of acceptance will be sent out by Tuesday, Aug. 20. OHDSI Social Showcase Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on the Showcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs, /X and feed a part of the #OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week: Monday (Denys Kaduk) Tuesday (Jared Houghtaling) Wednesday (Jill Hardin) Thursday (Boudewijn Aasman) Friday (Qiong Wu) Job Openings Ross Williams shared that the Erasmus MC Department of Medical Informatics is looking for a PhD student to work on cutting-edge health AI and data science topics. This person will be responsible for the research on using federated data network to improve best practice around the development and validation of prediction models. You will lead and contribute to project conducting methodological research within the field of machine learning in healthcare. More information and the application link . The application deadline is May 13. Aki Nishimura announced that Johns Hopkins University is seeking postdoctoral fellows. The fellow would work on methodological research in pharmaco-epidemiology to address medication and device utilization, effectiveness, and safety relevant to health, lung, and blood diseases. More information and application detail . If you are interested in having Aki Nishimura a a co-advisor, please include him on your application email at . Dani Prieto-Alhambra recently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link . Slides | Presentations: / | Video Presentation 2024 powered by Top | | | Support The Journey OHDSI Sponsorship Helps Provide A Foundation For Our Global Research Efforts The OHDSI Central Coordinating Center provides support for our open-source community and it mission to improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. OHDSI collaborates in all aspect of the journey from data to evidence, including open community data standards, open-source software development, open methodological research, and open network clinical research. Collectively, thousand of OHDSI collaborator contribute their time and expertise to the community to advance the mission. The OHDSI central coordinating center assumes the cost associated with central infrastructure and community coordination, which currently exceeds $1 million/year. What Does The OHDSI Coordinating Center Do, And How Does Your Sponsorship Impact OHDSI's Future? (George Hripcsak) for more information, contact The OHDSI central coordinating center facilitates collaboration by both providing a central shared infrastructure and coordinating community activity that allow individual from diverse backgrounds, disciplinary perspectives, stakeholder representation, and geography to come together for a common cause. The OHDSI central coordinating center is responsible for the maintenance and release of the OHDSI standardized vocabularies, an integrated biomedical ontology and knowledge resource that is made public and ha been downloaded >100,000 time by more than 1,500 organizations. The OHDSI central coordinating center built and maintains a central computing environment to enable community open-source analytics development, providing an infrastructure for continuous integrating testing across multiple relational database platform for open-source tool such a HADES and WebAPI/ATLAS. The OHDSI coordinating center also host server that provide demonstration and collaboration environment to give community member opportunity to learn about OHDSI best practice and capabilities, and to apply them within their own research activities. The OHDSI central coordinating center also organizes the annual OHDSI Global Symposium, a multi-day event that brings individual together to share their ongoing research, learn from the community, and create new collaboration opportunities. OHDSI community communications, including weekly community calls, monthly newsletters, annual reports, our website, forums, and social media, are all led by the OHDSI central coordinating center.Your sponsorship funding will be used by the OHDSI central coordinating center at Columbia University Irving Medical Center to finance the expense associated with these activities, which includes funding for vocabulary development, central computing infrastructure, and community event cost (hotel, food, audio/visual), a well a support staff for project management, communications, and administration. Because Columbia University is a non-profit organization, sponsorship can have tax benefits. By sponsoring the OHDSI central coordinating center, you show your support for OHDSIs mission and help sustain our community. You also demonstrate a commitment to the principle of open science and the opportunity this brings to improve health care. If you would like more information about supporting theOHDSI central coordinating center, please contact.Since OHDSI is a non-profit organization, your donation may be tax deductible.The OHDSI community thanks you for your support! 2024 powered by Top | | | CBER BEST Seminar Series The Seminar Series is designed to share and discus recent research of relevance to ongoing and future surveillance activity of CBER regulated products, namely biologics. The series focus on safety and effectiveness of biologics including vaccines, blood components, blood-derived products, tissue and advanced therapies. The seminar will provide information on characteristic of biologics, required infrastructure, study designs, and analytic method utilized for pharmacovigilance and pharmacoepidemiologic study of biologics. They will also cover information regarding potential data sources, informatics challenge and requirements, utilization of real-world data and evidence, and risk-benefit analysis for biologic products. The length of each session may vary, and the presenter will be invited from outside FDA. Below you will find detail of upcoming CBER BEST seminars, including virtual link that will be open to anybody who wish to attend. Speakers who give their consent to be recorded will also have their presentation included on this page; you can find those session below the list of upcoming speakers. Upcoming Seminars Previous Seminars Topic: Real-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents: causal inference under misclassification in treatment statusPresenter: Dr. Yong Chen, Professor & Director of the Center for Health AI and Synthesis of Evidence (CHASE) at the University of PennsylvaniaDescription: The current understanding of long-term effectiveness of the BNT162b2 vaccine across diverse U.S. pediatric population is limited. We assessed the effectiveness of BNT162b2 against various strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus using data from a national collaboration of pediatric health system (PEDSnet). We emulated three target trial to ass the real-world effectiveness of BNT162b during the Delta and Omicron variant periods. In the U.S., immunization record are often captured and stored across multiple disconnected sources, resulting in incomplete vaccination record in patient electronic health record (EHR). We implemented a novel trial emulation pipeline accounting for possible misclassification bias in vaccine documentation in EHRs. The effectiveness of the BNT162b2 vaccine wa estimated from the Poisson regression model with confounders balanced via propensity score stratification. This study suggests BNT162b2 wa effective among child and adolescent in Delta and Omicron period for a range of COVID-19-related outcome and is associated with a lower risk for cardiac complications.Bio: Dr. Yong Chen is tenured Professor of Biostatistics and the Founding Director of the Center for Health AI and Synthesis of Evidence (CHASE) at the University of Pennsylvania. He is an elected fellow of American Statistical Association, International Statistical Institute, Society for Research Synthesis Methodology, American College of Medical Informatics, and American Medical Informatics Association. He founded the Penn Computing, Inference and Learning (PennCIL) lab at the University of Pennsylvania, focusing on clinical evidence generation and evidence synthesis using clinical and real-world data. During pandemic, Dr. Chen is serving a biostatistics core director for a national multi-center study on Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS CoV-2 infection (PASC), involving more than 9 million pediatric patient across 40 health systems. Topic: KEEPER: Standardized structured data from electronic health record a an alternative to chart review for case adjudication and phenotype evaluationPresenter: Anna Ostropolets, Director, Head of Innovation Lab, Odysseus Data Services Topic: Use of Linked Databases in Pharmacodepidemiology: Considerations for Potential Selection BiasPresenter: Jenny Sun, Pfizer Topic: Avoidable and bias-inflicting methodological pitfall in real-world study of medication safety and effectivenessPresenter: Katsiaryna Bykov, Harvard Medical School Topic: Leveraging real-world data for better health in Europe through collaboration between regulator & academiaPresenters: Xintong Li and Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, University of Oxford, NDORMS Topic: Quantifying bias due to disease- and exposure misclassification in study of vaccine effectivenessPresenter: Kaatje Bollaerts, P-95 Topic: Negative outcome control and p-value calibration in RWE generationPresenter: Martijn Schuemie, Janssen R&D Topic: Bayesian Safety Surveillance with Adaptive Bias CorrectionPresenter: Fan Bu, UCLA Topic: Bayesian Adaptive Validation Design for Vaccine SurveillancePresenters: Timothy Lash and Lindsay Collin, Emory Topic: Everything keep changing: What COVID-19 taught u about surveillancePresenter: Marc Lipsitch, Harvard Topic: Quantitative Bias Analysis Methods to Improve InferencesPresenter: Matthew Fox, BUSPH Topic: Addressing Selection and Confounding Bias in Test-Negative Study Designs for Flu and COVID-19 MonitoringPresenter: Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, University of Pennsylvania Topic: Evaluating Use of Methods for Adverse Events Under Surveillance For VaccinesPresenter: Nicole Pratt, University of South Australia Topic: Vaccine safety evaluation using the self-controlled case series methodPresenter: Heather Whitaker, Open University Topic: Exploring Vaccine Safety Datalink COVID vaccine rapid cycle analysis (RCA) methodsPresenter: Nicola Klein, Kaiser Permanente Topic: COVID-19 pharmacoepidemiology in CanadaPresenter: Robert Platt, McGill University Topic: Statistical learning with electronic health record dataPresenter: Jessica Gronsbell, University of Toronto Topic: Methods for Monitoring the Safety and Effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccinesPresenter: Bruce Fireman, Kaiser Permanenteat presenter request, this session wa not recorded Topic: Understanding Informed Presence Bias in EHR DataPresenter:Ben Goldstein, Duke Topic: Vaccine safety surveillance system for routine and pandemic immunization programsPresenter:Daniel Salmon, Johns Hopkins 2024 powered by Top | | | 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium Oct. 22-24 New Brunswick, N.J. Hyatt Regency Hotel The 10th annual OHDSI Global Symposium will be held in person October 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. Please check back on this event homepage, during OHDSI community calls, and on our social channel for all updates.We are planning another exciting three-day event. On Tuesday, October 22, we will have space for open collaboration for the community a well a multiple tutorials, including an Introduction to OHDSI session. On Wednesday, October 23, we will host plenaries and our annual collaborator showcase. On Thursday, October 24, the collaborator showcase will continue along with workgroup activity throughout the day. Symposium and Tutorial Registration 2024 OHDSI GLOBAL SYMPOSIUM REGISTRATION FEES:Tuesday, October 22 through Thursday, October 24: Registration for Symposium Activities, $500*Additional Tutorial Fees: Tuesday, October 22: Introduction to OHDSI tutorial, 8am-12pm, $100; advanced tutorials, 1pm-5pm, $200 (the ticket will reflect these option in a package price)*this is an open and inclusive event; if the symposium registration fee present a burden for you, please email and request a discounted or free ticket.SCHEDULE AND TUTORIALS FOR TUESDAY, OCT. 22SCHEDULE AND WORKGROUPS FOR THURSDAY, OCT. 24The full agenda and the schedule of event for Wednesday, October 23, will be available in the late summer.Should you need to make change or cancel your registration tickets, please follow the instruction you will receive on your Eventbrite confirmation upon registration completion. Please note that all registration ticket can be refunded up until 7 day prior to the event; Eventbrite fee are not refundable for any registration ticket.Please note: There is a change in the Eventbrite order process. You will be asked to purchase your ticket(s) before you fill out the registration form. After you Place Order, please answer the registration form question that appear and then click Get Tickets. Your registration will not be complete until you answer the question and click Get Tickets. COLLABORATION ACTIVITIESOn Tuesday, October 22, there will be collaboration opportunity for the community in addition to the tutorials. These activity will take place in shared space with other activity and the aim is for community networking. The organizer of a community activity will be responsible for marketing it to the community. Your activity will be allotted up to 2 round table for a maximum of 20 people. If you are interested in a hosting a collaborative activity at the symposium on October 22, Collaborator Showcase OHDSIs achievement over the last decade would not be possible if not for the hard work of our community member around the world. Our annual collaborator showcase provides our collaborator the opportunity to share their tremendous work. If you are interested in participating in the 2024 Collaborator Showcase, To look at research shared in the past, check out our recent showcases: | | | | .The 2024 brief report submission form is below. In order to access the form, you must have a Google account. and then return to fill out the submission form.Important Dates:all submission are due no later than 8:00pm ET on Friday, June 21.all submission will be peer-reviewed by the Scientific Review Committee between June 21-August 9If you have been selected to present your work at the 2024 collaborator showcase, you will be notified via email by Tuesday, August 20. Hotel Information and Sleeping Room Block Hotel Address:Hyatt Regency, 2 Albany Street, New Brunswick, NJ, 08901Hotel Main Number: (732) 873-1234; Reservations Toll Free: (800) 233-1234 (when calling, please refer to the OHDSI Symposium, Group Code: G-OHDS) Hotel Website: This year, OHDSI is holding a small sleeping room block for the night of Monday, Oct. 21, Tuesday, Oct. 22, and Wednesday. Oct. 23 with a special room rate of $199 plus tax (extra fee for more than 2 people in a room). To help u in the planning process, we ask that you do not cancel your hotel room ordered through the OHDSI Room Block. If you must cancel, please do so bySunday, Sept. 15, so that the room may go to someone who need one. Once the room block is full, or if specific night are sold out, you may make additional room reservation on the hotel website or by calling the hotel reservation number above.Please note that all sleeping room in the OHDSI room block are on a first-come, first-served basis; therefore, we recommend making your hotel guestroom accommodation a soon a possible to ensure the discounted room rate.The OHDSI room block below is for guestroom date between Oct. 21-24. Should you need to arrive before October 21 or stay past October 24, please book the 3 night through the OHDSI room block below and make the additional room reservation on the hotel website; earlier and later room date will be at the hotel prevailing rates. If you have multiple reservations, please inform the hotel upon check-in and they will link your reservation so you will not have to switch room during your stay. Exhibitor Information We have limited opportunity for exhibitor at the 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium. If you would like information on how to become a symposium exhibitor, please email and let u knowhow your product/service connects to the OMOP CDM, OHDSI tool or OHDSI stakeholders. Symposium FAQS 2024 powered by Top | | | Subscribe To Our Newsletter Subscribe To Our Newsletter Subscribe * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name 2024 powered by Top | | | Who We Are Who We Are Founded in 2014, the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI, pronounced Odyssey) initiative grew out of the successful Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP). OHDSI is a multi-stakeholder, interdisciplinary, open-science collaborative to bring out the value of health data through large-scale analytics.With more than 2,000 collaborator across 74 country and health record for about 810 million unique patient from around the world, OHDSI seek to improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. OHDSIs data network is based on it OMOP common data model, enabling federated analytics amongst collaborators. OHDSI ha established an international network of researcher and observational health database with a central coordinating center housed at Columbia University. You can learn more about OHDSI through , or through the , which serf a an annual report of community progress.Our workgroups present opportunity for all community member to find a home for their talent and passions, and make meaningful contributions. We are always looking for new collaborators. Learn more about these workgroups by checking out . Any workgroup that provided a community call update is highlighted in the top section.A great way to connect with the community is to , held Tuesdays at 11 am ET. These call are meant to inform and engage our community through a variety of call formats, including community presentations, working group updates, breakout sessions, focus topics, newcomer-focused sessions, and more. The community call homepage (linked above) ha recording from previous presentations, a well a a link to join the weekly call. 2024 powered by Top | | | Support for OHDSI Support for OHDSI We fulfill OHDSIs mission through building large-scale analysis of observational health database for population-level estimation and patient-level predictions. We are deeply committed to our core principle that the product of our work all of the tool we develop and all of the evidence we generate should be made open-source and freely available to everyone. Unfortunately, it cost money to make knowledge free, and financial support is necessary to sustain this effort. Some of u provide our time a in-kind contribution to the collaborative. Others are seeking support to facilitate their contribution to the collaborative through a variety of funding source such a public government grants, industry contracts, private foundation grant and other opportunities. Interested in providing support to OHDSI? There are a few different way you can provide funding to the OHDSI collaborative. Perhaps the most straightforward approach is to provide an unrestricted grant to the OHDSI central coordinating center at Columbia University. The money would go to providing the foundational support for the entire collaborative, and would be used to support personnel and shared infrastructure. You can also directly fund a specific body of work under grant or contract with any of the OHDSI collaborating organizations. For example, if you are particularly interested in seeing the development of HOMER advanced, support could be used to fund programmer and other staff to get that application into production. In case when the project requires collaboration between institutions, one institution could be the lead investigator group and coordinate subcontract with other participating institutions. In term of order of magnitude of support, the type of funding opportunity that the team are actively soliciting usually involve direct cost paid per year with a 3-5 year commitment. The length of commitment is particularly important, a most project involve an academic collaborator needing to make a sustained commitment to graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, or other research staff. The majority of the funding go to direct cost associated with personnel, but money may also be allocated to technical infrastructure and licenses. Another opportunity to contribute would be to fund the acquisition or licensing of a patient-level database that can be placed within the OHDSI central coordinating center infrastructure and used for analysis. For example, you may have an interest in learning more about how to use a new de-identified EHR dataset that a commercial organization license to researchers. OHDSI could be a safe place to bring those data into a central environment. There, standardized analytics will help you understand what type of question that data source can reliably address. Typically, a de-identified patient-level database would carry a license cost paid per year or over the course of a project, and that cost varies substantially by the data source. There would be additional resource needed to host the data and perform the data standardization necessary to learn from the data. Again, an important point to reinforce is that, in all of these situations, you would have a direct contractual relationship with an OHDSI collaborating organization; there would be no third-party entity acting a middleman and taking a second-level of indirect overhead expense from your contribution. Reach out to any of the OHDSI collaborator or email and we will be happy to discus next steps. Acknowledgements OHDSI collaborator would like to acknowledge and thank financial support provided by the following organizations: Vojtech Huser time spent on contribution to OHDSI is funded by the Intramural Research Program of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)/ National Library of Medicine (NLM)/ Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications (LHNCBC). In addition, Vojtech Huser access to datasets in the CDM model is sponsored by the Reagan-Udall Foundation for the FDA project IMEDS-SA-0011 The effort that Jon Duke contributes to OHDSI is supported by Janssen and Merck George Hripcsaks team at OHDSIs coordinating center, located at Columbia Universitys Department of Biomedical Informatics acknowledges support for contribution to OHDSI from Takeda Pharmaceuticals International, Janssen Research and Development and AstraZeneca. Contributions made to OHDSI by Rae Woong Parks team at Ajou University School of Medicineis supported by a grant of the Korea Health Technology R&D Project through the Korea Health Industry Development Institute (KHIDI), funded by the Ministry of Health & Welfare, Republic of Korea (grant number : HI14C3201) Brian Sauer received investigator initiated research support from Amgen for his contribution to OHDSI Abraham Hartzema and Brian Sauer received consulting fee and travel expense from Pfizer in connection with providing input on the study design and interpretation of result of the study Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership and Mini-Sentinel Common Data Models and Analytics: a systematic data driven comparison. The effort that Richard D. Boyce, PhD, contributes to OHDSI is funded by United States National Institute on Aging grant number K01AG044433 and the National Library of Medicine grant number R01LM011838-01. The effort that Chunhua Weng, PhD, contributes to OHDSI is funded by United States National Library of Medicine grant number R01LM009886 (Bridging the semantic gap between clinical research eligibility criterion and clinical data). Nigam Shahs team at Stanford acknowledges support for contribution to OHDSI by a research award from Janssen Research and Development a well a National Institute of General Medical Sciences grant R01 GM101430 and the National Library of Medicine grant number R01 LM011369. The effort that Marc Suchard contributes to OHDSI is funded by NSF IIS1251151, NSF DMS126153 and NIH R01HG006139, along with support from Janssen Research and Development. The effort that Trevor Shaddox contributes to OHDSI is funded by NSF IIS1251151, NIH T32-GM008185, and by the UCLA Burroughs Wellcome Fund Inter-school Training Program in Chronic Diseases. Jon Duke acknowledges supporting source for his contribution to OHDSI including funding from Janssen Research and Development, Merck & Co, and support from the Regenstrief Institute. Xiaochun Liacknowledges supporting source for her contribution to OHDSI including funding from Janssen Research and Development, Merck & Co, and support from the Regenstrief Institute. The effort that George Hripcsak contributes to OHDSI is funded by theNIHs National Library of Medicine grant number R01 LM006910(Discovering and applying knowledge in clinical databases). 2024 powered by Top | | | Weekly OHDSI Digest May 6, 2024 Weekly OHDSI Digest May 6, 2024 Posted on by Posted in WEEKLY COMMUNITY CALL MEETING Please join our May 7 (11 am ET) community callfor a review of, which served a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software. This session will include several speaker and topic from the event, including: Paul Nagy, Johns Hopkins University(Open-Source Overview) Vishnu Chandrabalan, Lancaster University(OHDSI/OMOP The hard way is the easy way) Roger Carlson, Spectrum Health(Moving OMOP to the Cloud with DBT and Snowflake) Adam Black, Erasmus MC (DARWIN EU Developers Updates) Lee Evans, LTS Computing LLC (Broadsea Update) Frank DeFalco, Janssen Research & Development(Technical Advisory Board (TAB) Update) Katy Sadowski, Boehringer Ingelheim (Kheiron Cohort Update) Everybody is invited. Calendar invite went out last week. If you did not receive one,to join the meeting. All recording from these weekly call are available within our Teams environment and will be posted on bothand. WEEKLY WORKING GROUP MEETINGS OHDSI SHOUTOUTS Congratulations to the team ofWilliam G. Adams, Sarah Gasman, Ariel L. Beccia and Liza Fuenteson the publication ofin theJournal of Clinical and Translational Science. Congratulations to the team ofNhung TH Trinh, Annika M Jdicke, Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Saeed Hayati, Angela Lupattelli, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Hedvig ME Nordengon the publication ofinThe Lancet Respiratory Medicine. OHDSI UPDATES The latest edition of the OHDSI newsletter, and it includes reflection on both the April Olympians and DevCon events, community updates, a collaborator showcase, publication and presentation from April, and plenty more. If you dont receive the newsletter in your email,. Montse Camprubiworks at Synapse Research Management Partners. Currently the EHDEN community manager, she is leading the central coordination effort between EHDEN Data Partners and certified SMES and EHDEN experts., Montse discus her background and career journey, recent highlight and future plan in EHDEN, the upcoming OHDSI Europe Symposium, and plenty more. Applications are being accepted to join the 2024-25 Kheiron Cohort. This program is designed to onboard new contributor into OHDSI to empower them to become active contributor and maintainers. The goal are to provide career development, create a global perspective of the ecosystem, build cross-connections between project and develop future leader for OHDSI.! The application deadline is June 1, 2024. Applications are also being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence., including application details, are now available,is May 15, 2024. Marissa Fiorellashared a forum post highlighting the upcoming Symposium on Risks and Opportunities of Artificial Intelligence in Pharmaceutical Medicine (AIPM), which will be held June 10-11 at Northeastern University, and will also have a Zoom option. Some OHDSI collaborator who are either speaking or helping organize the event areDavid Madigan, Asieh Golozar, David Sontag, Louisa Smith, and Marc Suchard. More detail and registration information. Linying Zhangis organizing a workshop on at the 22nd International(AIME), happening at Salt Lake City, Utah, on July 9-12, 2024. The workshop focus on advancing the understanding and exploring the transformative role of artificial intelligence (AI) in analyzing real-world data (RWD) for real-world evidence (RWE) generation.George Hripcsakwill be delivering the opening keynote speech. The workshop will also feature scientific presentation from author with accepted paper or abstracts, and potentially a panel or debate. The intended length is 4 hours. We are calling for submission of full papers, short papers, and poster abstracts! Thesubmission deadlineisMay 31, 2024. More information is available on theorhomepages. OHDSI Social Showcase Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on theShowcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs,/X andfeeds a part of the#OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week: Monday (Denys Kaduk) Tuesday (Jared Houghtaling) Wednesday (Jill Hardin) Thursday (Boudewijn Aasman) Friday (Qiong Wu) OHDSI SYMPOSIA Registration is now OPEN for the, which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam.for more information and registration details. 2024 Global Symposium is now open for the, which will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. The three-day event will feature tutorial on Day 1, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Day 2, and workgroup activity on Day 3. Day 1 will open with a single tutorial in the morning:An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI. There will be four advanced tutorial during the afternoon:An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI;Developing and Evaluating Your Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) Process to the OMOP Common Data Model;So, You Think You Want To Run an OHDSI Network Study?; andUsing the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies for Research.You can select your tutorial during the registration process. Collaborator Showcase submission are now being accepted, and. Submissions are due byFriday, June 21, at 8 pm ET.Notifications of acceptance will be sent out byTuesday, Aug. 20. JOB OPENINGS Ross Williamsshared that the Erasmus MC Department of Medical Informatics is looking for a PhD student to work on cutting-edge health AI and data science topics. This person will be responsible for the research on using federated data network to improve best practice around the development and validation of prediction models. You will lead and contribute to project conducting methodological research within the field of machine learning in healthcare. More information and the application link. The application deadline is May 13. Aki Nishimuraannounced that Johns Hopkins University is seeking postdoctoral fellows. The fellow would work on methodological research in pharmaco-epidemiology to address medication and device utilization, effectiveness, and safety relevant to health, lung, and blood diseases. More information and application details. Dani Prieto-Alhambrarecently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link. OHDSI MSTEAMS Accessing MSTeams:To join OHDSI Teams, please fill out this form: If you are already in the OHDSI Teams environment and you would like to join work group in teams, please fill out this form: Duplicate email removal from OHDSI Teams:As you should always be using one email in OHDSI Teams when joining all workgroups, you may remove duplicate email by filling out To unsubscribe from Teams, please fill out Please continue to collaborate in our MS Teams environment, check outand, and follow u on all platforms, includingandto get continued update and information on everything happening in our community Recent Posts 2024 powered by Top | | | Weekly OHDSI Digest April 29, 2024 Weekly OHDSI Digest April 29, 2024 Posted on by Posted in WEEKLY COMMUNITY CALL MEETING Please join our April 30 (11 am ET) community callfor an interactive session to highlight all the advancement made during the April Olympians collaborative activity. This call will be led by our April Olympians co-leads: Clair Blacketer, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research & Development Melanie Philofsky, Senior Business Analyst and Project Manager, Odysseus Data Services, Inc. Everybody is invited. Calendar invite went out last week. If you did not receive one,to join the meeting. All recording from these weekly call are available within our Teams environment and will be posted on bothand WEEKLY WORKING GROUP MEETINGS OHDSI SHOUTOUTS Congratulations to the team ofMartin Baumgartner, Karl Kreiner, Aaron Lauschensky, Bernhard Jammerbund, Klaus Donsa, Dieter Hayn, Fabian Wiesmller, Lea Demelius, Robert Modre-Osprian, Sabrina Neururer, Gerald Slamanig, Sarah Prantl, Luca Brunelli, Bernhard Pfeifer, Gerhard Plzl, and Gnter Schreieron the publication ofinFrontiers in Medicine. Congratulations to the team ofChungsoo Kim, Dong Han Yu, Hyeran Baek, Jaehyeong Cho, Seng Chan You, and Rae Woong Parkon the publication ofin theInternational Journal of Epidemiology. Congratulations to the team ofMarkus Falgenhauer, Aaron Lauschensky, Karl Kreiner, Stefan Beyer, Kristina Reiter, Andreas Ziegl, Robert Modre-Osprian, Bernhard Pfeifer, Sabrina Neururer, Susanne Krestan, Hanna Wagner, Andreas Huber, Sandra Plaikner, Sarah Kuppelwieser, Martin Widschwendter, and Gnter Schreieron the publication ofinVolume 313 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. Congratulations to the team ofEvgeniy Krastev, Emanuil Markov, Simeon Abanos, Ralitsa Krasteva, and Dimitar Tcharaktchievon the publication ofinVolume 313 of Studies in Health Technology and Informatics. OHDSI UPDATES served a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software. The full agenda from the event is posted below, and recording are available on the event homepage. Applications are being accepted to join the 2024-25 Kheiron Cohort. This program is designed to onboard new contributor into OHDSI to empower them to become active contributor and maintainers. The goal are to provide career development, create a global perspective of the ecosystem, build cross-connections between project and develop future leader for OHDSI.! Applications are also being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence., including application details, are now available,is May 15, 2024. Linying Zhang is organizing a workshop on at the 22nd International(AIME), happening at Salt Lake City, Utah, on July 9-12, 2024. The workshop focus on advancing the understanding and exploring the transformative role of artificial intelligence (AI) in analyzing real-world data (RWD) for real-world evidence (RWE) generation.George Hripcsakwill be delivering the opening keynote speech. The workshop will also feature scientific presentation from author with accepted paper or abstracts, and potentially a panel or debate. The intended length is 4 hours. We are calling for submission of full papers, short papers, and poster abstracts! Thesubmission deadlineisMay 31, 2024. More information is available on theorhomepages. OHDSI Social Showcase Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on theShowcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs,/X andfeeds a part of the#OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week: Monday (Dian Tri Wiyanti) Tuesday (Elise Ruan) Wednesday (Azza Shoaibi) Thursday (Victor Castro) Friday (Jeffrey Klann) OHDSI SYMPOSIA Registration is now OPEN for the, which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam.for more information and registration details. 2024 Global Symposium is now open for the, which will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. The three-day event will feature tutorial on Day 1, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Day 2, and workgroup activity on Day 3. Day 1 will open with a single tutorial in the morning:An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI. There will be four advanced tutorial during the afternoon:An Introduction to the Journey from Data to Evidence using OHDSI;Developing and Evaluating Your Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) Process to the OMOP Common Data Model;So, You Think You Want To Run an OHDSI Network Study?; andUsing the OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies for Research.You can select your tutorial during the registration process. Collaborator Showcase submission are now being accepted, and. Submissions are due byFriday, June 21, at 8 pm ET.Notifications of acceptance will be sent out byTuesday, Aug. 20. JOB OPENINGS Dani Prieto-Alhambrarecently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link. Alex Asiimweshared an opening for aat Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhangshared opening for both aand aat the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to. OHDSI MSTEAMS Accessing MSTeams:To join OHDSI Teams, please fill out this form: If you are already in the OHDSI Teams environment and you would like to join work group in teams, please fill out this form: Duplicate email removal from OHDSI Teams:As you should always be using one email in OHDSI Teams when joining all workgroups, you may remove duplicate email by filling out To unsubscribe from Teams, please fill out Please continue to collaborate in our MS Teams environment, check outand, and follow u on all platforms, includingandto get continued update and information on everything happening in our community Recent Posts 2024 powered by Top | | | Weekly OHDSI Digest April 22, 2024 Weekly OHDSI Digest April 22, 2024 Posted on by Posted in WEEKLY COMMUNITY CALL MEETING Please join our April 23 (11 am ET) community callfor a session focused on the CDM and Themis Process, a well a our fourth update on the April Olympians community activity. This call will provide information about both the CDM and Themis workgroups, including their mission and processes. This call will be led by our April Olympians co-leads: Clair Blacketer, Director, Observational Health Data Analytics, Janssen Research & Development Melanie Philofsky, Senior Business Analyst and Project Manager, Odysseus Data Services, Inc. Everybody is invited. Calendar invite went out last week. If you did not receive one,to join the meeting. All recording from these weekly call are available within our Teams environment and will be posted on bothand. WEEKLY WORKING GROUP MEETINGS OHDSI SHOUTOUTS Congratulations to the team ofRoger Ward, Christine Mary Hallinan, David Ormiston-Smith, Christine Chidgey, and Dougie Boyleon the publication ofinPLOS One. Congratulations to the team ofChristian Gulden, Philipp Macho, Ines Reinecke, Cosima Strantz, Hans-Ulrich Prokosch, and Romina Blasinion the publication ofinComputers in Biology and Medicine. Congratulations to the team ofGiorgio Gandaglia, Francesco Pellegrino, Asieh Golozar, Bertrand De Meulder, Thomas Abbott, Ariel Achtman, Muhammad Imran Omar, Thamir Alshammari, Carlos Areia, Alex Asiimwe, Katharina Beyer, Anders Bjartell, Riccardo Campi, Philip Cornford, Thomas Falconer, Qi Feng, Mengchun Gong, Ronald Herrera, Nigel Hughes, Tim Hulsen, Adam Kinnaird, Lana Y.H. Lai, Gianluca Maresca, Nicolas Mottet, Marek Oja, Peter Prinsen, Christian Reich, Sebastiaan Remmers, Monique J. Roobol, Vasileios Sakalis, Sarah Seager, Emma J. Smith, Robert Snijder, Carl Steinbeisser, Nicolas H. Thurin, Ayman Hijazy, Kees van Bochove, Roderick C.N. Van den Bergh, Mieke Van Hemelrijck, Peter-Paul Willemse, Andrew E. Williams, Nazanin Zounemat Kermani, Susan Evans-Axelsson, Alberto Briganti, James NDow, on behalf of the PIONEER Consortiumon the publication ofinEuropean Urology. OHDSI UPDATES Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence., including application details, are now available,is May 15, 2024. Thewill be heldFriday, April 26, from 9 am-3 pmin the MS Teams environment. This event serf a an opportunity to connect our global open-source community and discus way we can collaborate and continue enhancing the future of OHDSI open-source software. The morning will include a series of lightning talk from a developer panel, a well a a full session from Adam Black with development update from the DARWIN EU initiative (see graphic to the right). The afternoon agenda will include a series of update on the OHDSI open-source ecosystem, a well a presentation around a tool for machine learning for healthcare data mapping and management, and knowledge graph using two tool with example application in drug surveillance and computational phenotyping. There will also be update about our current student in the Kheiron Cohort, an update from technology board, and a look at a couple exciting OHDSI sandbox projects. Linying Zhang is organizing a workshop on at the 22nd International(AIME), happening at Salt Lake City, Utah, on July 9-12, 2024. The workshop focus on advancing the understanding and exploring the transformative role of artificial intelligence (AI) in analyzing real-world data (RWD) for real-world evidence (RWE) generation.George Hripcsakwill be delivering the opening keynote speech. The workshop will also feature scientific presentation from author with accepted paper or abstracts, and potentially a panel or debate. The intended length is 4 hours. We are calling for submission of full papers, short papers, and poster abstracts! Thesubmission deadlineisMay 31, 2024. More information is available on theorhomepages. Atif Adamannounced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available. Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on theShowcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs,/X andfeeds a part of the#OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week: Monday (Frank DeFalco) Tuesday (Maya Younoszai) Wednesday (Nag Mani) Thursday (Chen Yanover) Friday (Ajit Londhe) OHDSI SYMPOSIA The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration open tomorrow, April 22! Registration is now OPEN for the, which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam.for more information and registration details. JOB OPENINGS Dani Prieto-Alhambrarecently shared an opening for two Research Assistants in Health Data Sciences to join the Pharmaco- and Device epidemiology research group at the Botnar Research Centre, NDORMS, University of Oxford. In this role, you will contribute to the programming of analytical pipeline for the analysis of routinely collected data mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model. You will analyze real world data to address regulatory question related to the prevalence/incidence of disease, use of medicines/vaccines, and the risk or benefit of medicines/vaccines or devices. You will prepare analytical package to run a number of pre-specified analyses, contribute to wider project planning, including idea for new research project and gather, analyze, and present scientific data from a variety of sources. The application deadline is May 10. More information and an application link. Alex Asiimweshared an opening for aat Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhangshared opening for both aand aat the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to. OHDSI MSTEAMS Accessing MSTeams:To join OHDSI Teams, please fill out this form: If you are already in the OHDSI Teams environment and you would like to join work group in teams, please fill out this form: Duplicate email removal from OHDSI Teams:As you should always be using one email in OHDSI Teams when joining all workgroups, you may remove duplicate email by filling out To unsubscribe from Teams, please fill out Please continue to collaborate in our MS Teams environment, check outand, and follow u on all platforms, includingandto get continued update and information on everything happening in our community Reply Recent Posts 2024 powered by Top | | | Weekly OHDSI Digest April 15, 2024 Weekly OHDSI Digest April 15, 2024 Posted on by Posted in WEEKLY COMMUNITY CALL MEETING Please join our April 16 (11 am ET) community callfor a session focused on Tools to Evaluate ETL. This call will also include our third April Olympians update fromClair BlacketerandMelanie Philofsky. We will welcome two community leader to lead our main session: Frank DeFalco, Senior Director, Observational Health Data Analytics at Janssen Research & Development Katy Sadowski, Senior Associate Director, Boehringer Ingelheim Everybody is invited. Calendar invite went out last week. If you did not receive one,to join the meeting. All recording from these weekly call are available within our Teams environment and will be posted on bothand. WEEKLY WORKING GROUP MEETINGS OHDSI SHOUTOUTS Congratulations to the team ofNhung TH Trinh, Annika M Jdicke, Mart Catal, Nria Mercad-Besora, Saeed Hayati, Angela Lupattelli, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, and Hedvig ME Nordengon the publication ofinThe Lancet Respiratory Medicine. Congratulations to the team ofGuy Tsafnat, Rachel Dunscombe, Davera Gabriel, Grahame Grieve, and Christian Reichon the publication ofin theJournal of Medical Internet Research. Congratulations to the team ofAilbhe Lawlor, Carol Lin, Juan Gmez Rivas, Laura Ibez, Pablo Abad Lpez, Peter-Paul Willemse, Muhammad Imran Omar, Sebastiaan Remmers, Philip Cornford, Pawel Rajwa, Rossella Nicoletti, Giorgio Gandaglia, Jeremy Yuen-Chun Teoh, Jess Moreno Sierra, Asieh Golozar, Anders Bjartell, Susan Evans-Axelsson, James NDow, Jihong Zong, Maria J. Ribal, Monique J. Roobol, Mieke Van Hemelrijck, Katharina Beyer, on behalf of the PIONEER Consortiumon the publication ofin theEuropean Urology Open Science. OHDSI UPDATES Applications are now being accepted for the 2024 Maternal Health Data Science Fellowship, which is designed to empower clinical investigator to leverage emerging technology for improved maternal and neonatal care while reducing morbidity and mortality. The program, which will include the component of career development, practice and networking, will train clinical investigator in observational research method to enable them to conduct reproducible research and generate real-world evidence., including application details, are now available,is May 15, 2024. Thereturns Wednesday, April 17 (11 am 12 pm ET) a 2021 Titan Award honoreeYong Chenpresents his research on ****Real-World Effectiveness of BNT162b2 Against Infection and Severe Diseases in Children and Adolescents: causal inference under misclassification in treatment status. This series is open to anybody:. The third annualOHDSI DevCon. Join leader from our Open-Source Community for a day to both welcome and inform both new and veteran developer within the OHDSI Community. More detail on the agenda will be posted when available. Atif Adamannounced an opportunity for collaboration around a new network study focusing on Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). The study intends to deepen the understanding of STEMI patient characteristic and identify incidence rate across multiple real-world data datasets. More detail and information on how to get involved are available. Research from the 2023 Global Symposium Collaborator Showcase can be viewed on theShowcase page. Research is also being shared daily on OHDSIs,/X andfeeds a part of the#OHDSISocialShowcase. Below are poster (with study leads) that are featured this week: Monday (Stephanie Hong) Tuesday (Emir Amaro Syailendra) Wednesday (Lina Sulieman) Thursday (Gowtham Rao) Friday (Guy Livne) OHDSI SYMPOSIA The 2024 OHDSI Global Symposium will be held Oct. 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, NJ. The tentative symposium format will feature tutorial on Oct. 22, plenaries and the collaborator showcase on Oct. 23, and workgroup activity on Oct. 24. Registration ha not opened yet. Registration is now OPEN for the, which will be held June 1-3 in Rotterdam, Netherlands. There will be tutorial and workshop June 1-2 at the Erasmus University Medical Center, and the main conference will be held Monday, June 3, on the Steam Ship Rotterdam.for more information and registration details. JOB OPENINGS Alex Asiimweshared an opening for aat Gilead. As a RWE Data Scientist (OMOP/OHDSI), you will play a crucial role in designing, implementing, and maintaining healthcare data solution using the OHDSI framework. This position offer an exciting opportunity to contribute to advancement in health informatics and research. Linying Zhangshared opening for both aand aat the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Successful candidate will work on causal machine learning and responsible AI for reliable real-world evidence generation. Interested applicant should send a CV and cover letter to. OHDSI MSTEAMS Accessing MSTeams:To join OHDSI Teams, please fill out this form: If you are already in the OHDSI Teams environment and you would like to join work group in teams, please fill out this form: Duplicate email removal from OHDSI Teams:As you should always be using one email in OHDSI Teams when joining all workgroups, you may remove duplicate email by filling out To unsubscribe from Teams, please fill out Please continue to collaborate in our MS Teams environment, check outand, and follow u on all platforms, includingandto get continued update and information on everything happening in our community Recent Posts 2024 powered by Top | | | Welcome to OHDSI! The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (or OHDSI, pronounced "Odyssey") program is amulti-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative to bring out the value of health data through large-scale analytics. All our solution are open-source. OHDSI ha established an international network of researcher and observational health database with a central coordinating center housed at Columbia University. Read more , about, and how you can . Join Us At The 2024 Global Symposium Registration is now open for the 2024 Global Symposium, which will be held October 22-24 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in New Brunswick, N.J., USA. Check out the event page for detail on the collaborator showcase, tutorial offerings, workshop activities, and more! What OHDSI Is All About OHDSIs MissionTo improve health by empowering a community to collaboratively generate the evidence that promotes better health decision and better care. Latest News 2024 powered by Top | | | User Tools Site Tools Search ToolsShow pagesourceOld revisionsBacklinksRecent ChangesMedia ManagerSitemapLog In> Trace: Sidebar Other Resources welcome Welcome to OHDSI OHDSI is a multi-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative that is striving to bring out the value of through large-scale analytics. The OHDSI Research Network span over 600 million patients. We hope you'll Join the OHDSI Journey. Find out more at Learn Learn how to implement the and use OHDSI's to get more out of your data. Contribute Contribute to OHDSI open-source and . Collaborate Ask question of the , join the and the . Want to edit the OHDSI wiki, or upload a file? Apply for wiki log-in detail . welcome.txt Last modified: 2017/12/05 19:00 by maura_beaton Page Tools