The digital transformation strategy of the European Union has, among others, a particular priority: the creation of common data platform based on a unified architecture and an established standard. As part of the Horizon 2020 programme, the OPEN DEI project focus on Platforms and Pilots to support the implementation of next generation digital platform in four basic industrial domains: manufacturing, agriculture, engergy, healthcare. the EU-funded OPEN DEI project aim to detect gaps, encourage synergies, support regional and national cooperation, and enhance communication among the Innovation Actions implementing the EU Digital Transformation strategy. A number of platforms, and associated ecosystems, have been developed during the last ten year in each of the specific sector covered by OPEN DEI. Several are evident in the field of healthcare. Of importance to platform are the platform-related activity identified a the six Ps by OPEN DEI. Besides platforms, the other five are: products, processes, people, partnership(s), and performance. In healthcare, various platform have emerged at European level since 2010 and have developed their own ecosystem, including the following: EPSOS, ACTIVAGE, UniversAAL, AEGLE Home2023-01-27T18:53:20+01:00 Open DEI About Open DEIAligning Reference Architectures, Open Platforms and Large-Scale Pilots in Digitising European Industry The digital transformation strategy of the European Union has, amongothers, a particular priority: the creation of common data platform based on a unified architecture and an established standard. As part of theHorizon 2020 programme, the OPEN DEI project focus on Platforms and Pilots to support the implementation of next generation digital platform in four basic industrial domains: Opening the eye of European industry and society to the return from Digital Transformation ObjectivesOPEN DEI strives to implement all effort for the benefit of the target project ecosystem: Task Forces to collectively address medium to long term challenge to be initiated by current project but fully implemented by next generation HEP or DEP initiative (e.g. Data Spaces; Business Ecosystems; Twin Transition) Working Groups to specifically address short term issue and contribute to project objective and deliverable DATA SHARING SPACESTask Force 1 Data space expert team up to define for the first time cross-sectoral and across initiative the fundamental design principle to build data spaces. Platform Building Design Principles for Data Spaces originates by need and discussion held at sector-specific working group level a well a the expert group discussion and confrontation held for the birth of the white paper Design Principles for data space Task Force 1 objectives: Data Spaces design principle Knowledge Transfer and Cross-fertilisation between project To ass building block and identify implementation to harmonise the data space Building Blocks and create a building block catalogues. To investigate the existing minimal viable data spaces, the implementation phase and commonalities. And provide guideline for data space deployment Task Force 1 activities: First iteration OPEN DEI Task Force 1 Iteration 1 brought together expert from four domain and various data space initiative to collaborate and define the design principle for data space implementation in a unified way. Design Principles for Data Spaces position Paper wa published last April 2021. The paper is available on Position Paper Design Principles for Data Spaces OPEN DEI Task Force 1 brings together expert from four domain and various data space initiative to collaborate and define the design principle for data space implementation in a unified way. Second iteration Assessment of minimal viable data space and common building block for data space implementation. Identify best practice and publish a building block catalogue. KoM and activity coordination with expert Workshops organisation with OPEN DEI WG and project for building block assessment and minimum viable data space identification. Publication of a White Paper Harmonization Canvas for building block and best practice for Data Spaces and creation of Building block catalogue. CloseDATA-POWERED BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM BULDINGTask Force 2 TF2 is a Think Tank to come up with reference model that will consolidate a Position Paper to drive the data-powered Digital Transformation in the European Community. Data-Powered Business Ecosystem A pool of expert in the domain of Digiting European Industry (DEI) to discus on the guiding principle to guarantee Business Continuity and Multilateral DVC development based on trust and data sovereignty Task Force 2 objectives: Provide common guidance with best practice and code of conduct for stakeholder to develop and/or participate in data-driven digital business ecosystem and value chains, enhancing the use of emerging digital innovation tool for digital transformation. Support OPEN DEI project in maximizing the impact of their Digital Transformations in the four domains, facilitating the scaling-up, cross-domain replication and long-term sustainability of the business and data ecosystem built around the Digital Platforms. Drive collaboration and align with other EU initiative to bridge the current business interoperability gap, building on governance standard and industry agreement to facilitate access to DVC. Task Force 2 activities: First iteration Analysis of existing opportunity to scale-up and replicate data-powered business ecosystems: Industrial Agreements and Data Act normative analysis. Basic principle to foster collaboration between stakeholder to generate high value processes, by governance rule and industrial agreement Principles for the excellence in conduct aimed at both paving the way to Data Act fulfilment, and business and ecosystem organic growth Second iteration Definition of common guidance to cover business interoperability gap: Best practice and code of conduct for business continuity and multilateral DVC. Final workshop to disseminate the White Papers result KoM and coordination with stakeholder Interactive brainstorming session and follow-up/revision of the White Paper CloseDigital Platforms, Pilots and StandardsTask Force 3 To create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learned on how platform supporting Digital Transformation can be architected, crossing the boundary of specific applicative sectors. Large scale piloting A pool of expert in the domain of Digitising European Industry (DEI) discusses, on a voluntary basis, new opportunity and challenge and consolidate their finding in a Whitepaper. Task Force 3 objectives: Identification of major interoperability mechanism and architectural element (such a data models, ontologies, APIs, other mechanism to standardize data access to be used by project in the four sectors. Analysis of use case from piloting activity to derive architectural patterns, reference implementation and enabled functionality leading to increased value Set-up of a collaboration framework for cross-sector ICT standardization activity Task Force 3 activities: First iteration Analysis and Discussion on Reference Architectures, Interoperability and Standards. D7.5 : OPEN DEI Task Force #3 Preliminary Results: Reference Architectures, Interoperability Frameworks and Standardization in DEI Digital Platforms Second iteration: Definition of Impact measurement and benchmark Framework and Pilots evaluation. D7.6 : OPEN DEI Task Force #3 Final Results: Pilots Digital Transformation Pathways and Achievements CloseDigital Transformation & Business ImpactTask Force 4 Think Tank to create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learnt on analysing the driver and barrier for adoption of platform supporting Digital Transformation and on assessing their business impact. Standardisation A pool of expert in the domain of Digitising European Industry (DEI) discusses, on a voluntary basis, new opportunity and challenge and consolidate their finding in a White Paper and a business assessment framework. Task Force 4 objectives: Provide a consolidate view of driver and barrier to adopt digital platform and recommendation in different domain and across domain Develop a Business Impact and Benchmarking Framework to support OPENDEI project in maximizing the socio-economic impact and to guide the OPENDEI project in developing and adopting their Exploitation Plans Boost collaboration with other EU initiative and project within the scope of business impact using existing synergy Task Force 4 activities: First iteration Market analysis of European Digital Platforms. Cross-domain and multi-domain SWOT analysis. KoM and market analysis interactive workshop SWOT co-design workshop to co-develop the SWOT model for digital platform Second iteration Impact measurement and benchmark Framework. Business impact method & benchmarking tool Interactive session to define KPIs and method for impact measurement benchmark Running the survey for KPIs measurement Final workshop to disseminate the result of measurement CloseNews 2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00February 1st, 2023|| 2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00November 21st, 2022|| 2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00October 7th, 2022|| 2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00September 26th, 2022|| 2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00September 25th, 2022|| 2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00September 15th, 2022|| 1Load More PostsEventsLatest Resources2023-02-16T13:55:40+01:00 2022-10-25T13:50:22+02:00 2022-10-25T13:47:52+02:00 1PartnersContact Us OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Home2023-01-27T18:53:20+01:00 Open DEI About Open DEIAligning Reference Architectures, Open Platforms and Large-Scale Pilots in Digitising European Industry The digital transformation strategy of the European Union has, amongothers, a particular priority: the creation of common data platform based on a unified architecture and an established standard. As part of theHorizon 2020 programme, the OPEN DEI project focus on Platforms and Pilots to support the implementation of next generation digital platform in four basic industrial domains: Opening the eye of European industry and society to the return from Digital Transformation ObjectivesOPEN DEI strives to implement all effort for the benefit of the target project ecosystem: Task Forces to collectively address medium to long term challenge to be initiated by current project but fully implemented by next generation HEP or DEP initiative (e.g. Data Spaces; Business Ecosystems; Twin Transition) Working Groups to specifically address short term issue and contribute to project objective and deliverable DATA SHARING SPACESTask Force 1 Data space expert team up to define for the first time cross-sectoral and across initiative the fundamental design principle to build data spaces. Platform Building Design Principles for Data Spaces originates by need and discussion held at sector-specific working group level a well a the expert group discussion and confrontation held for the birth of the white paper Design Principles for data space Task Force 1 objectives: Data Spaces design principle Knowledge Transfer and Cross-fertilisation between project To ass building block and identify implementation to harmonise the data space Building Blocks and create a building block catalogues. To investigate the existing minimal viable data spaces, the implementation phase and commonalities. And provide guideline for data space deployment Task Force 1 activities: First iteration OPEN DEI Task Force 1 Iteration 1 brought together expert from four domain and various data space initiative to collaborate and define the design principle for data space implementation in a unified way. Design Principles for Data Spaces position Paper wa published last April 2021. The paper is available on Position Paper Design Principles for Data Spaces OPEN DEI Task Force 1 brings together expert from four domain and various data space initiative to collaborate and define the design principle for data space implementation in a unified way. Second iteration Assessment of minimal viable data space and common building block for data space implementation. Identify best practice and publish a building block catalogue. KoM and activity coordination with expert Workshops organisation with OPEN DEI WG and project for building block assessment and minimum viable data space identification. Publication of a White Paper Harmonization Canvas for building block and best practice for Data Spaces and creation of Building block catalogue. CloseDATA-POWERED BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM BULDINGTask Force 2 TF2 is a Think Tank to come up with reference model that will consolidate a Position Paper to drive the data-powered Digital Transformation in the European Community. Data-Powered Business Ecosystem A pool of expert in the domain of Digiting European Industry (DEI) to discus on the guiding principle to guarantee Business Continuity and Multilateral DVC development based on trust and data sovereignty Task Force 2 objectives: Provide common guidance with best practice and code of conduct for stakeholder to develop and/or participate in data-driven digital business ecosystem and value chains, enhancing the use of emerging digital innovation tool for digital transformation. Support OPEN DEI project in maximizing the impact of their Digital Transformations in the four domains, facilitating the scaling-up, cross-domain replication and long-term sustainability of the business and data ecosystem built around the Digital Platforms. Drive collaboration and align with other EU initiative to bridge the current business interoperability gap, building on governance standard and industry agreement to facilitate access to DVC. Task Force 2 activities: First iteration Analysis of existing opportunity to scale-up and replicate data-powered business ecosystems: Industrial Agreements and Data Act normative analysis. Basic principle to foster collaboration between stakeholder to generate high value processes, by governance rule and industrial agreement Principles for the excellence in conduct aimed at both paving the way to Data Act fulfilment, and business and ecosystem organic growth Second iteration Definition of common guidance to cover business interoperability gap: Best practice and code of conduct for business continuity and multilateral DVC. Final workshop to disseminate the White Papers result KoM and coordination with stakeholder Interactive brainstorming session and follow-up/revision of the White Paper CloseDigital Platforms, Pilots and StandardsTask Force 3 To create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learned on how platform supporting Digital Transformation can be architected, crossing the boundary of specific applicative sectors. Large scale piloting A pool of expert in the domain of Digitising European Industry (DEI) discusses, on a voluntary basis, new opportunity and challenge and consolidate their finding in a Whitepaper. Task Force 3 objectives: Identification of major interoperability mechanism and architectural element (such a data models, ontologies, APIs, other mechanism to standardize data access to be used by project in the four sectors. Analysis of use case from piloting activity to derive architectural patterns, reference implementation and enabled functionality leading to increased value Set-up of a collaboration framework for cross-sector ICT standardization activity Task Force 3 activities: First iteration Analysis and Discussion on Reference Architectures, Interoperability and Standards. D7.5 : OPEN DEI Task Force #3 Preliminary Results: Reference Architectures, Interoperability Frameworks and Standardization in DEI Digital Platforms Second iteration: Definition of Impact measurement and benchmark Framework and Pilots evaluation. D7.6 : OPEN DEI Task Force #3 Final Results: Pilots Digital Transformation Pathways and Achievements CloseDigital Transformation & Business ImpactTask Force 4 Think Tank to create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learnt on analysing the driver and barrier for adoption of platform supporting Digital Transformation and on assessing their business impact. Standardisation A pool of expert in the domain of Digitising European Industry (DEI) discusses, on a voluntary basis, new opportunity and challenge and consolidate their finding in a White Paper and a business assessment framework. Task Force 4 objectives: Provide a consolidate view of driver and barrier to adopt digital platform and recommendation in different domain and across domain Develop a Business Impact and Benchmarking Framework to support OPENDEI project in maximizing the socio-economic impact and to guide the OPENDEI project in developing and adopting their Exploitation Plans Boost collaboration with other EU initiative and project within the scope of business impact using existing synergy Task Force 4 activities: First iteration Market analysis of European Digital Platforms. Cross-domain and multi-domain SWOT analysis. KoM and market analysis interactive workshop SWOT co-design workshop to co-develop the SWOT model for digital platform Second iteration Impact measurement and benchmark Framework. Business impact method & benchmarking tool Interactive session to define KPIs and method for impact measurement benchmark Running the survey for KPIs measurement Final workshop to disseminate the result of measurement CloseNews 2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00February 1st, 2023|| 2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00November 21st, 2022|| 2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00October 7th, 2022|| 2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00September 26th, 2022|| 2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00September 25th, 2022|| 2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00September 15th, 2022|| 1Load More PostsEventsLatest Resources2023-02-16T13:55:40+01:00 2022-10-25T13:50:22+02:00 2022-10-25T13:47:52+02:00 1PartnersContact Us OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. About About2022-03-09T09:08:29+01:00 About OPEN DEIAligning Reference Architectures, Open Platforms and Large-Scale Pilots in Digitising European Industry The Digital Transformation strategy of the European Union has, among others, a particular priority: the creation of common data platform based on a unified architecture and an established standard. Manufacturing, agriculture, energy and healthcare represent key field for the deployment of the EU strategy for digitalisation. In this framework, the EU-funded OPEN DEI project aim to detect gaps, encourage synergies, support regional and national cooperation, and enhance communication among the Innovation Actions implementing the EU Digital Transformation strategy. ObjectivesOPEN DEI strives to implement all effort for the benefit of the target project ecosystem: Task Forces to collectively address medium to long term challenge to be initiated by current project but fully implemented by next generation HEP or DEP initiative (e.g. Data Spaces; Business Ecosystems; Twin Transition) Working Groups to specifically address short term issue and contribute to project objective and deliverables: TF1 DATA SHARING SPACES Data space expert team up to define for the first time cross-sectoral and across initiative the fundamental design principle to build data spaces. TF2 DATA - POWERED BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM BULDING Think Tank to come up with reference model that will consolidate a Position Paper to drive the data-powered Digital Transformation in the European Community. TF3 - DIGITAL PLATFORMS, PILOTS AND STANDARDS To create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learned on how platform supporting Digital Transformation can be architected, crossing the boundary of specific applicative sectors. TF4 - DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION & BUSINESS IMPACT Think Tank to create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learnt on analysing the driver and barrier for adoption of platform supporting Digital Transformation and on assessing their business impact. ApproachOPEN DEI aim to be an essential pillar of the implementation of Digitising European Industry policies: the project aim to provide the necessary measures, channel and mechanism to ensure cooperation between pilot project so that synergy can be exploited, knowledge can be shared and impact is maximized. OPEN DEI is actively supporting the digital transformation in Europe-technology-driven and business oriented 16 working group driving digital transformation in 4 domains: OPEN DEIWorking Groups are addressing common domain specific challenge needing a short-term solution, e.g., in the preparation and scoping of deliverables, dissemination events, exploitation actions. Their goal are to: develop synergy on Digital Transformation within their respective domain to address need shared by all projects, collaborate with Task Forces (WP7) developing cross-domain assets, to consider these asset to support the Digital Transformation migration process initiated by the projects, provide technical-oriented and business-oriented sector-specific challenge that need to be addressed by technological objective (WP8) and business objective (WP9) OPEN DEI activity implemented in the working group (WP10). ConsortiumOPEN DEI consists of ten European partner representing a variety of sector including industry, research, academia and no-profit. With organisation from four different Member States (Belgium, Germany, Italy and Spain), the Consortium pull together a set of strong complementary skill in research, development and innovation with the ability to actively contribute to the support of pilot activity and knowledge transfer across different sectors. OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Progetti_new Progetti_new2022-03-07T16:58:42+01:00 OPEN DEI PROJECTS Significant SectorsSignificant Sectors OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Manufacturing Sector Manufacturing Sector2022-03-09T09:10:18+01:00 The MANUFACTURING SectorOPEN DEI will be an essential pillar of the implementation of EU digitisation policy by addressing in particular the support to the currently ongoing Large-Scale Pilots (LSPs) and platform project financed by the European Commission under the Digitising European Industries (DEI) Focus Area working in different strategic sectors: one of them is the manufacturing domain. DescriptionManufacturing represents about 15% of total EU value added and account for 2 million company and 33 million direct jobs. A key sector in the European market but not anymore the provider of plenty of unskilled job that used to be in the past. European manufacturing competitiveness need a continuous development and implementation of large-scale experimentation pilots, reference architecture and open data platform to drive and coordinate global standard development for Industry 4.0. OPEN DEI will give support and enhance the impact of the Innovation Actions that, under the framework of the Digital Transformation, are addressing the following challenge: Agile Value Networks for lot size 1 production: to design / manufacture customized product through more dynamic solution Excellence in manufacturing: Data driven product and service to implement Zero Defect Manufacturing in Industry 4.0 The human factor: designing the future workplace enhancing the collaboration between human and autonomous system Sustainable Value Networks: applying the principle of circular economy to manufacturing process A further common challenge is the shift from classic production job towards higher value-added type of jobs, OPEN DEI will support this shift with the preparation of a catalogue of skill and training activity for the digital reskilling and upskilling of European manufacturing workforce. OPEN DEI Next StepsFirst step is to start working with the Innovation Actions already running to collect requirement / need and first results, with a focus on the reference architecture and pilots, and transfer them to OPEN DEI for cross-domain awareness channels. OPEN DEI will soon produce some questionnaire and template to be circulated to the relevant project in the four Digital Transformation domain a well a look for cross-domain collaboration and dissemination events. OPEN DEI ProjectsManufacturing QU4LITY QU4LITY will demonstrate an open SME-friendly shared data-driven ZDM product and service model for Factory 4.0 through 5 strategic ZDM lighthouse equipment pilot and 9 production lighthouse facility pilots. QU4LITY will also demonstrate how European industry can build ZDM strategy and competitive advantage (increasing efficiency, reducing scrap, avoiding defect propagation) through an orchestrated open platform ecosystem and digital enablers across all phase of product and process lifecycle (engineering, planning, operation and production) building upon the QU4LITY autonomous quality model to meet the Industry 4.0 ZDM challenges. CloseManufacturing ZDMP Zero Defect Manufacturing Platform The ZDMP project combine state of the art technological approach based on commercial grade standard or open-source or previous-project software with an innovative integration concept based on proven and integrating technologies. It provides Process and Product Quality support on top of a platform layer. These all can utilise ZDMP core service which can also be used to build ZD Apps which are placed on the ZD Marketplace. The ultimate aim is to establish a sustainable business and technological approach. CloseManufacturing European Factory Platform European Connected Factory Platform for Agile Manufacturing The European Factory Platform project realises a federated smart factory ecosystem by primarily interlinking 4 smart factory platforms, from the FoF-11-2016 cluster, through an open and interoperable Data Spine. The federation of the 4 base platform is complemented by industrial platforms, collaboration tool and smart factory systems, specifically selected to support connected factory in lot-size-one manufacturing. The federated European Factory Platform delivers enhanced value and reduces the barrier to innovation by providing seamless access to service and solution that are currently dispersed. In parallel the platform provides the necessary infrastructure, tool and support for novel service creation and validation by third parties. The creation of the European smart factory ecosystem is supported by offering technical and financial support to company who are interested in using the European Factory Platform to enhance their businesses. CloseManufacturing Connected Factories Pathways to Digitalisation of Manufacturing The ConnectedFactories project establishes a structured overview of available and upcoming technological approach and best practice with regard to the digitalisation of Manufacturing. The project identifies present and future needs, a well a challenges, of the Manufacturing industries. The project explores pathway to the digital integration and interoperability of Manufacturing system and process and the benefit this will bring. The ConnectedFactories 1 project ha produced the baseline version of three pathway to the digitalisation of manufacturing: Autonomous Smart Factories Hyperconnected Factories Collaborative Product-Service Factories The ConnectedFactories 2 project (started on 1 December 2019) focus on: Creating a common understanding of key enablers and cross-cutting factor for the development and deployment of digital technology and digital platform for Manufacturing Deepening pathway by taking into account legacy systems, industrial requirement and challenge Situating inspiring research and industrial state-of-the-art cases, key enablers and cross-cutting factor along these pathway Matching of skill transfer offering with skill demand across Europe Engaging with the research and industrial actor in both European and local forum or ecosystems, bringing together manufacturing companies, technology and component suppliers, etc. Creating a broad awareness about the pathways, key enablers and cross-cutting factors, and about inspiring case for SMEs Stimulating visibility and impact of Digital Platform project CloseManufacturing KYKLOS 4.0 An Advanced Circular and Agile Manufacturing Ecosystem based on rapid reconfigurable manufacturing process and individualized consumer preference KYKLOS 4.0 aim to develop an innovative Circular Manufacturing ecosystem based on novel CPS and AI based technologies, enhanced with novel production mechanism and algorithms, targeting on personalised product with extended life cycle and promoting energy efficient and low material consumption intra-factory production processes, resulting reduced greenhouse gas emission and air pollutants. KYKLOS 4.0 will demonstrate, in a realistic, measurable, and replicable way the transformative effect that CPS (Circular Production System), PLM (Product Life Management), LCA (Life Cycle Analysis), AR (Augmented Reality) and AI (Artificial Intelligence) technology and methodology will have to the Circular Manufacturing Framework. To this end, KYKLOS 4.0 will: perform large-scale piloting in 7 pilot to demonstrate the technical, environmental and economic viability of KYKLOS 4.0 Ecosystem to reshape intra-factory process and services; show KYKLOS 4.0 value in term of operational efficiency improvement by at least 15%; deliver resource reusable solution (second use of material, part and component reuse) for the whole manufacturing sectors; ensure scalability for future scale of novel CM (Circular Manufacturing) technology and service at least at the level of year 2024; engage over 100 key European industry actors, (through Open Calls and workshops); transfer knowledge and technology to increase use of KYKLOS 4.0 Ecosystem to at least 50%; strengthen the position of EU CM technology provider and sector fostering a market share of up to 12%; pursue a strong plan for sustainability by incubating at least 3 post-project replication sites; mobilize additional sector investment of at least 6 time the EC contribution. The unique constellation and complementarity of KYKLOS 4.0 partner allows driving innovation of CM technology and service along the whole manufacturing value chain. KYKLOS 4.0 will deliver innovation along three key value dimension for CM: operational efficiency with minimum environmental impact, significantly improving overall mass customisation performance and help deliver green manufacturing performance targets; consumer experience, delivering better service for consumer need and wants, which is of particular importance for company in liberalized consumerized CM markets, where entry barrier for new player and margin are decreasing; new business model revolving around monetizing available technology in new ways. KYKLOS 4.0 will demonstrate, in a realistic, measurable, and replicable way the transformative effect that KYKLOS 4.0 Ecosystem will have to the CM market, thereby fostering significant increase in the uptake of KYKLOS 4.0 solution CloseManufacturing DigiPrime Digital Platform for Circular Economy in Cross-sectorial Sustainable Value Networks Digital technology play a big role in our transition to a circular economy, which aim to make optimum use of resource within industries. Investing in innovation is good for the protection of the environment, and it also contributes to Europes competitiveness. The EU-funded DigiPrime project will develop the concept of a circular economy digital platform in order to create circular business model based on the data-enhanced recovery and reuse of function and materials. Specifically, it will create and operate a federated model of digital platform for cross-sector business in the circular economy. DigiPrime will be validated through several cross-sectoral pilots, further detailed in 20 use case covering different European industrial sector (automotive, renewable energy, electronics, textile, construction), and by additional pilot in new sectors, funded through an open call mechanism. CloseManufacturing Shop4CF Smart Human Oriented Platform for Connected Factories Europes factory are getting smarter, optimising production process and enabling a more sustainable and competitive industry. Finding the right balance between cost-effective automation and repetitive task and involving worker in area such a adaptability, creativity and agility is the ultimate aim. In accordance with the highly connected factory model, a lot of data is being generated within the factory by the embedded sensor and connected production equipment. All this information is useful in improving processes. The EU-funded SHOP4CF project will develop a platform on an open architecture that can support human in production activity and provide basic implementation a a free, open-source solution. It will rely on pilot acting a the testing facility and seed for adoption of the platform. Close OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Agrifood Sector Agrifood Sector2022-03-08T20:00:05+01:00 The AGRI-FOOD SectorOPEN DEI will be an essential pillar of the implementation of EU digitisation policy by addressing in particular thesupport to the Large-Scale Pilots (LSPs) and platform projectsfinancedby the European Commission under the Digitising European Industries (DEI) Focus Area and currently ongoing, which work in different strategic sectors: one of them is represented byagri-food. DescriptionThe food industry is usually considered to be an industry with low research intensity (Charis M. Galanakis, 2016).Farmers and food company are slower in adopting digital technology in comparison with other sector and are just starting adopting and standardising digitisation at proper scale. Innovation and investment in technology and ICT are differently interpreted according to the company size, but also according to the propensity of the owners. Nevertheless, the Agri-food sector a a whole (from the field to the shelf of shop and supermarkets, and catering) remains one of the most important sector of the current economy and fundamental to face the challenge of food security in the upcoming years. For this reason, the Agri-food sector cannot allow itself to lose the opportunity offered by digitisation. Agriculture contributed 1.1% to the EUs GDP in 2018 (Eurostat) and, according to Data & Trends 2019 (FoodDrinkEurope, 2019), the EU food and drink industry employ 4.72 million people, generates a turnover of 1.2 trillion and 236 billion in value added, making it the largest manufacturing industry in the EU and the biggest manufacturing employer in half of the EUs 27 Member States plus the UK. Just a an example, the agri-food sector value in Italy corresponds to 25% of the Italian GDP (a quarter of the wealth generated in Italy, therefore, is linked to the production and sale of food and drinks). In general terms, it is necessary to make farm and food industry in Europe aware of digitalisation advantage and benefits, in particular by providing them with success story and/or testing with them how a technology can concretely be useful. The relationship technology provider Agri-food company is fundamental, to analyse the single case and to realise solution customised to the specific need and requirement of the firm. But some solution are needed also for those company which already embraced the Digital Transformation and intend to continue on this path, since some pending issue have not been faced and solved yet. Just a an example, some Agri-food company (mainly the multinational ones, le the small ones) already embraced digitalization in the last year for different purpose (e.g. to optimise internal operations, for traceability, to manage the warehouse, for logistics and transportation, etc.) and a lot of data are there (generated by the technology applied inside the company or along the supply chain at the different level of the food system). However, very often big data remain useless if the company is not able to manage/interpret them (transforming such data into useful information); analytics instrument and skill are needed for managing such a mass of data and to structure the company in order to get the maximum advantage. In addition, interoperability among different system and device cannot still be guaranteed, limiting the success of Digital Transformation from potential user point of view. The opportunity to create a trust environment on new technologies; to foresee the introduction of standard for the data management and exchange of information; to test/validate interoperability solution (among Platforms and informative systems) is a desideratum, but not a reality yet in this sector. It is necessary to show farmer the opportunity offered by digitisation in their specific context, informing and training them on which applications, already available, are the most effective to meet their production need (including also decision support systems) and to put farmer in the condition to have access to such innovations, in the full respect of cyber security in term of data sharing and re-use of data. OPEN DEI ProjectsAgri-Food Demeter Building an Interoperable, Data-Driven, Innovation & Sustainable European Agri-Food Sector The DEMETER Project is a Large-Scale deployment of farmer centric interoperable smart farming-IoT based platform delivered through a series of 20 pilot across 18 country (15 States in the EU). Involving 60 partners, DEMETER adopts a multi-actor approach across the value chain (demand and supply), with 25 deployment sites, 6,000 farmer and over 38,000 device and sensor being deployed and participant involved come from different production sector (dairy, meat, vegetables, fruit and arable crops), production system (conventional and organic) and different farm size and types, optimizing the data analysis obtained across multiple farms. DEMETER will demonstrate the real-life potential of advanced standards-based interoperability between IoT technology by adapting and extending existing standard into an over-arching Agricultural Information Model, concurrently ensuring security, privacy and business confidentiality across the full value chain in multiple agri-food operational environments. DEMETER will encompass a multi system and multi data source integration considering not only IoT but legacy systems, open data, geographical and satellite information, and in general will provide an open and interoperable data integration model. DEMETER display how an integrated approach to business modelling and user acceptance can support sustainable farming and food production systems, provide safe food and support farmer in their decision-making in doing more with less. DEMETER will bring new business opportunity on the farm and in the wider agri-food economy, while concurrently contributing to the safeguarding of Europes precious natural resources. DEMETERs goal is the creation of a secure and sustainable European IoT technology and business ecosystem whose impact could be transformative in the EC food and agriculture sector, and potentially across the world. CloseAgri-Food Atlas Agricultural Interoperability and Analysis System The ATLAS Project is a Large-Scale-Pilots project involving 30 partner and 4 LTPs from 9 different European countries. Objectives: Definition of a microservice architecture to interconnect sensors, sensor platform and agricultural machinery to achieve a new level of interoperability; Definition of and contribution to new standard for a service oriented and data driven agriculture; Implementation of service for the acquisition, processing and analysis of data from a multitude of sensor based on open standard and formats; the intercommunication of agricultural machines, sensor and sensor platform by mean of a hardware interoperability and abstraction layer; knowledge exchange, knowledge management and decision support based on semantic technology and machine learning; Integration of all service into an open, distributed and extensible service platform to enable farming community to have full control over their data and to build up local, informed knowledge; Evaluation of the implemented technology within several agricultural use case (apples, cherries, chestnuts, arable crops, vineyards, forestry, potatoes, orchards, fruit production, poultry farming, beef cattle, pigs, mother cows) through 13 field study conducted in real agricultural environment to demonstrate and evaluate the platform and the interoperability of sensors, machine and services; Establishing 4 Innovation Hubs along the use-cases to extend the user base of the ATLAS platform during the project; Establish an ATLAS Ecosystem to connect supply and demand side through sustainable business models. CloseAgri-Food agROBOfood Business-Oriented Support to the European Robotics and Agri-food Sector, towards a network of Digital Innovation Hubs in Robotics agROBOfood is an EU funded project aiming to build a European ecosystem for the effective adoption of robotic technology in the agri food sector, which in turn will become more efficient and competitive. The heart of the project is formed by Innovation Experiments, organized and monitored by Digital Innovation Hubs. In 7 Regional Clusters, Initial Innovation Experiments will demonstrate robotics innovation in agri food, in a manner that ensures replicability and wide adoption across Europe. Digital Innovation Hubs will support company in digitization by connecting various stakeholders. agROBOfood already connects the world of Robotics and Agriculture, R&D and business by establishing a sustainable network of Digital Innovation Hubs. The network already count 49 Digital Innovation Hubs and 12 Competence Centers and it will be extended and strengthened during the project. In addition, agROBOfood will launch Open Calls through which it will attract and fund additional Innovation Experiments and Industrial Challenges. A total of 8 million will be allocated for the direct benefit of SMEs through Open Calls. CloseAgri-Food Internet of Food & Farm 2020 IoF2020 foster a Large-Scale uptake of IoT technology in the agrifood sector. Its main objective are to: Demonstrate the business case of IoT for a large number of application area in farming and food sector: trial in 5 agri-food sector (arable farming, vegetable, fruits, dairy and meat), for a total of 33 use case in 22 Member States; Integrate and reuse available IoT technology by exploiting open infrastructure and standards; Ensure user acceptability of IoT solution in farming and food sector by addressing user needs, including security, privacy and trust issues; Ensure the sustainability of IoT solution beyond the project by validating the related business model and setting up an IoT ecosystem for large scale uptake. CloseAgri-Food Smart Agri Hubs The SmartAgriHubs project, started in November 2018, connects the dot of agri-tech innovation to catalyse the digital transformation of the European agri-food sector. The project aim to realize this by fostering a self-sustaining pan-European agricultural innovation ecosystem dedicated to excellence, sustainability and success. To this end, a multi-stakeholder approach covering a wide value-chain of Digital Innovation Hubs, Competence Centres, Flagship Innovation Experiments and other agri-food stakeholder across all EU member state is deployed. 108 partner involved in the project. TheSmartAgriHubsproject involves digitisation effort in 5 agri-food sector (arable farming, livestock, vegetable, fruit and aquaculture) which play a vital role in both the EUs economy and the diet of it citizen but at the same time face similar challengeson a daily basis and will demonstrate the role digitisation can play in both overcoming these challenge whilst at the same time also making European agriculture more sustainable. CloseAgri-Food Auroral Architecture for Unified Regional and Open digital ecosystem for Smart Communities and wider Rural Areas Large scaleapplication AURORAL focus on increasing connectivity and delivering a digital environment of smart object interoperable service platform able to trigger dynamic rural ecosystem of innovation chains, application and services. Thus, AURORAL contributes to increase economic growth and create job in rural area and to tackle significant societal challenges, contributes to overcoming digital divide between rural and urban area and to develop the potential offered by increased connectivity and digitisation of rural areas. AURORAL digital environment is demonstrated by cost-efficient and flexible cross-domain application through large-scale pilot in five European regions. It build on an open, API-based, interoperable and federated Internet of Things (IoT) architecture and includes a reference implementation supporting flexible integration of heterogeneous services, bridging the interoperability gap of the smart object platform and creating market for service in rural areas. CloseAgri-Food dRURALThe service marketplace for European rural area Obj.: dRURAL will inject new chance for the development of European rural area and communities. The project aim to create a user-friendly digital marketplace, which will be iteratively developed, tested, improved and validated together with the ecosystem of end user and service providers, ensuring full engagement of all relevant actor in rural areas. The project will launch an open call for other rural community willing to implement the proposed digital marketplace of services.CloseDT-ICT-09 rural economy (cross-domain)Agri-Food Starting in November 2020 OPEN DEI ActivitiesTo date, two H2020 Innovation Actions, ATLAS and DEMETER (DT-ICT-08) and some other pre-existing more mature projects, IoF2020 IoT LSP, SmartAgriHubs and AgROBOFood (DT-ICT-02), for a total of 5+ project all working in the agriculture sector, represent the Agri-food Ecosystem of OPEN DEI. OPEN DEI will integrate also the winner of the DT-ICT-09-2020 Call (the Commission recently informed the applicant about the evaluation result for their proposals; it is expected that the first grant agreement will be signed by mid-December 2020) considering then it Ecosystem completed. The mechanism of collaboration activated by OPEN DEI and the Ecosystems project foresees, on the one hand, the set up and animation of Working Groups (WGs) on specific topic required by the project themselves. Such WGs should be intended a stable group of people experienced in common issue which discus among them along regular meeting for making emerge opportunities. OPEN DEI offer a support in practical term for managing such inter-projects meeting and material exchange (rapporteur, repository, mailing list). On the other side, exploiting the cross-domain nature of OPEN DEI Action, the main goal of OPEN DEI Agri-food Ecosystem is to populate with agri-food expert the leading community of targeted Task Forces (TFs) launched on specific topics, guided by experienced people from OPEN DEI Consortium, with different iteration which will include meetings, consensus meeting and a final strategic outcome (e.g. White Paper). With TFs, OPEN DEI intends to open a debate and collaborative work environment among cross-domain IAs, where OPEN DEI can validate it original knowledge asset (Platform, Pilots, Ecosystem, Standards) in close co-operation with the representative of the four domains. Agri-food domain is led by , an Italian non-profit research organisation active in the Agri-food supply chain since almost 40 years, very close to farmer and food producer needs. OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Energy Sector Energy Sector2022-03-09T07:16:20+01:00 The ENERGY SectorOPEN DEI will be an essential pillar of the implementation of EU digitisation policy by addressing in particular thesupport to the currently ongoing Large-Scale Pilots (LSPs) and platform projectsfinancedby the European Commission under the Digitising European Industries (DEI) Focus Area working in different strategic sectors: one of them is theEnergydomain. DescriptionThe global energy system is experiencing a revolutionary transition from the present single-carrier, fossil-based status towards an integrated, low-carbon and market-based one. Due to the increasing complexity, there is an urgent need to unlock smart technology and service to ensure secure, reliable, resilient, accessible and cost-efficient solutions. In the next future, the Integrated Energy Systems (IES) will consist of four inter-connected and inter-related layers: The market layer, to allow for exchange between market player (generators, aggregators, consumer and any other player). The communication layer, to support the vertical and horizontal integration of energy system and the relaying of information with the market. The physical system layer, which consists of automated energy infrastructure (generation, power conversion, storage and networks) designed to meet citizen needs. The digital infrastructure layer, which support network operation to manage the integrated energy system with higher level of automation. DigitalisationDigitalisation ha become the main tool and driver of the power system transition and therefore requires central priority. It ha three main components: Information is generated and collected by connected devices. Analytics are used to generate information to support network operator and market stakeholders. Connectivity allows for the exchange of massive data between humans, device and machines. This complexity requires higher level of operational excellence with the adoption of disrupting technology to foster cross-domain data sharing and data-driven innovation. In this context a standardized software platform is the key enabler of interoperability and main vehicle for a rapid implementation of innovative energy services. OPEN DEI will evaluate, analyse and propose reference platform that will constitute the basis of the four IES layers. Particular attention is assigned to the open source platforms, for which FIWARE framework provides software component that are open source, easy adoptable and that can be assembled together with other third-party platform component to accelerate implementation of smart internet-related applications. The amount of data that is exchanged between different domain and level of the energy system is continuously increasing and requires effective measure to be managed. The following key element in data management, in support of a data economy, need to be fulfilled: Data model/Semantics Data model/Semantics: definition of an appropriate data model beyond a single sector is a key ingredient for interoperability. Data Sovereignty Data Sovereignty: the ability of a data owner to define what a third party is allowed to do with his data. Security Security: system must be immune to cyber-attacks even under strong growth of IoT and rapid change in digital technology and decentralisation. Open API Open API: closed solution will not create a real open and competitive market. Open APIs offer the perfect bridge between private infrastructure spaces. These aspect will be investigated by OPEN DEI in defining the recommendation and optimal specification of platform for energy sector. Among these properties, interoperability play a key role in the future systems: it allows the user to be independent in managing the own architectures/devices and guarantee the integration of each component in the deployed solution. A main aspect corresponds to the specification of a common data exchange format. In this context, SAREF (Smart Appliance REFerence ontology) is a shared model of consensus that facilitates the matching of existing asset (standards/protocols/datamodels/etc.) in the smart appliance domain. The use of SAREF provides building block that allow separation and recombination of different part of the ontology depending on specific needs. The complete mapping of energy service to SAREF is an effective support to enhance applicability of proposed architectures. Additionally, it is necessary to identify and promote standard protocols, information model and data model related to each different level of the energy systems, to ensure successful deployment of implemented services. OPEN DEI ProjectsEnergy PLATONE PLATform for Operation of distribution Networks. Modern power grid are moving away from centralised, infrastructure-heavy transmission system operator (TSOs) towards distribution system operator (DSOs) that are flexible and more capable of managing diverse renewable energy sources. DSOs require new way of managing the increased number of producers, end user and more volatile power distribution system of the future. PlatOne project is using blockchain technology to build a platform to meet the need of modern DSO power systems, including data management. The platform is built with existing regulation in mind, and will allow small power producer to be easily certified so that they can sell excess energy back to the grid. CloseEnergy INTERCONNECT Interoperable Solutions Connecting Smart Homes, Buildings and Grids The EU energy market is conditioned by digitalisation. New rule and technological development allow the proliferation of energy service provider in the EU member state with user having full knowledge and control over their appliances. However, interoperability represents a serious problem a a change of provider could mean the replacement of installations. The EU-funded InterConnect project proposes effective energy management using a resilient and practical ecosystem that is user-centric and market-driven. The project involves a range of specialised stakeholders, including advanced technology actors, manufacturers, provider and energy users. Via seven pilots, they will showcase an effective digital market for ensuring energy-efficiency at reduced cost that is beneficial to end-users. CloseEnergy PLATOON Digital PLAtform and analytic TOOls for eNergy PLATOON will deploy distributed/edge processing and data analytics technology for optimized real-time energy system management in a simple way for the energy domain expert. The data governance among the different stakeholder for multi-party data exchange, coordination and cooperation in the energy value chain will be guaranteed through IDS based connectors. The project will develop and use the PLATOON reference architecture, COSMAG-compliant, for building and deploying scalable and replicable energy management solution that contribute to increased renewable energy consumption, smart grid management, increased energy efficiency and optimised energy asset management. CloseEnergy INTERRFACE TSO-DSO-Consumer INTERFACE aRchitecture to provide innovative grid service for an efficient power system Digitalisation is a key driver for coordination and active system management in the electricity grid. To support the digital transformation, the INTERRFACE project will design, develop and exploit an Interoperable pan-European Grid Services Architecture to act a the interface between the power system (TSO and DSO) and the customer and allow the seamless and coordinated operation of all stakeholder to use and procure common services. State-of-the-art digital tool based on blockchains and big data management will provide new opportunity for electricity market participation and thus engage consumer into the INTERRFACE proposed market structure that will be designed to exploit Distributed Energy Resources. CloseEnergy SYNERGY Big Energy Data Value Creation within SYNergetic enERGY-as-a-service Applications through trusted multi-party data sharing over an AI big data analytics marketplace SYNERGY introduces a novel reference big data architecture and platform that leverage data, primary or secondarily related to the electricity domain, coming from diverse source (APIs, historical data, statistics, sensors/ IoT, weather, energy market and various other open data sources) to help electricity stakeholder to simultaneously enhance their data reach, improve their internal intelligence on electricity-related optimization functions, while getting involved in novel data (intelligence) sharing/trading models, in order to shift individual decision-making at a collective intelligence level.CloseEnergy COORDINET Large scale campaign to demonstrate how TSO-DSO shall act in a coordinated manner to procure grid service in the most reliable and efficient way. CoordiNet aim to demonstrate how DSOs and TSOs by acting in a coordinated manner can provide favorable cooperation condition to all actor while removing barrier to participation for customer and small market player connected to distribution networks. CoordiNet will also develop new mechanisms, which are more suitable for real time operations, in order to define requirement for the development of standard European platforms. The result will help to design scalable tool and methodology for grid operator and third party to safely connect, manage and coordinate flexibility providers. CloseEnergy BD4OPEM BD4OPEM Big Data for OPen innovation Energy Marketplace Energy power system face big challenge to cope with grid integration demand of an ever-increasing number of distributed generation and consumption device in an interconnected world. Nowadays, old metering, operation and control device are combined with smart system with a huge amount of data being available yet unused or underused. This data offer a wide range of possibility to improve existing energy service and creating new ones, all available in an Open Innovation Marketplace, and processed through an Analytic Toolbox. BD4OPEM will develop this Analytic Toolbox, based on Big data techniques, providing tool for enabling efficient business process in the energy sector. By extracting more value from available data, a range of innovative service will be created in the field of grid monitoring, operation and maintenance, network planning, fraud detection, smart houses/buildings/industries energy management, blockchain transaction and flexibility aggregation for demand-response. The project will demonstrate the above feature in four large scale pilot with diverse distributed energy source (e.g. PV, wind, hydro, EV, storage), while promoting the competitiveness and synergy of Sustainable innovation and IT Ecosystems in Europe. CloseEnergy OneNet OneNet One Network for Europe While the electrical grid is moving from being a fully centralized to a highly decentralized system, grid operator have to change their operative business to accommodate for faster reaction and adaptive exploitation of flexibility. The topic ha been subject of several research project in the past year and reached a maturity that allows now the consideration of a final level, proposing an integrated view on the grid operation beyond the traditional barriers. OneNet aim at performing this critical step creating the condition for a new generation of grid service able to fully exploit demand response, storage and distributed generation while creating fair, transparent and open condition for the consumer. As result, while creating one network of Europe, the project aim to build a customer centric approach to grid operation. This ambitious view is achieved by proposing new markets, product and service and by creating a unique IT architecture. While a single platform for Europe is not thinkable, OneNet proposes innovative mechanism of platform federation which are the key technical enablers for the proposed vision. CloseEnergy BD4OPEM BIG DATA FOR INNOVATIVE AND SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SOLUTIONS Global demand for electricity is increasing and energy system have moved from an analogue to an interconnected real-time digital world. Huge amount of data, mostly unused or underused, are available, offering great potential to develop exciting new services. BD4OPEM will develop product and service to improve the planning, monitoring, operation and maintenance of electrical distribution grids, all made available at an open innovation marketplace. BD4OPEM will create a seamless link between energy stakeholder and solution developed. The Marketplace will ensure secure data flow between data provider and solution providers, resulting in new data-driven business models, enhanced asset management and consumer participation in energy balancing. Target user group will be able to find relevant solution provided by different specialized companies. The process will be demonstrated at five pilot site (Spain, Turkey, Slovenia, Belgium and Denmark), who provide the initial input data and who will also trial and validate the usefulness and the usability of the service being developed. CloseEnergy BD4NRG BD4NRG: Big Data for Next Generation Energy Advancements in next-generation energy technology will drastically transform how the world generates and consumes power. Starting with the decentralisation of the energy system, it is necessary to establish a fair and secure engagement between big data and artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. To achieve this, there is a need for more standardisation of big data architecture for smart grid and regulatory framework that do not facilitate actual data sharing. The EU-funded BD4NRG project will develop a reference architecture for smart energy to align various architecture together with an interoperable AI-driven big data analytics framework. This will enable cross-stakeholders data-driven service and full interoperability of leading-edge big data technology with smart grid standard and operational frameworks. CloseOPEN DEI Next StepsFollowing the Energy domain workshop (held on April 6, 2020), the creation of four working group ha been agreed: Use-cases explorer, Data/Shared-infrastructures, Linking eco-systems and Technical topics. The action line of each working group are being defined in individual meetings, together with cooperation with external stakeholder (such a BRIDGE Inititative, Linux Foundation Energy and ETIP-SNET) in the Energy sector. OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Healthcare Sector Healthcare Sector2022-05-17T11:50:12+02:00 The HEALTHCARE SectorOPEN DEI will be an essential pillar of the implementation of EU digitisation policy by addressing in particular thesupport to the Large-Scale Pilots (LSPs) and platform projectsfinancedby the European Commission under the Digitising European Industries (DEI) Focus Area and currently ongoing, which work in different strategic sectors: one of them is thehealthcaredomain. DescriptionInitial Digital Platforms in the Healthcare Sector The digitisation of the healthcare system ha been underway since at least the 1990s but ha evolved slowly due to a number of major barriers. The main one to highlight are the complexity of healthcare systems, the nature of the patient-healthcare professional relationship, the resistance of clinician to change the way they work, and legal and ethical issue such a privacy and the sensitivity of healthcare data. Hence, an active collaboration between the various stakeholder ha always and still is a prerequisite for success. In the larger European area, the first large scale deployment of digital service in Healthcare wa the implementation of electronic medical record (EMRs) in both primary care and hospital in country such a Denmark, Sweden and Israel and region such a Andalusia (Spain) and Lombardy (Italy). EMRs have served a the foundation for the digital transformation of healthcare. Over the past decadeOver the past decade, a number of national and regional government have developed and implemented eHealth strategy which include national or regional Electronic Health Records (EHRs) aiming at ensuring continuity of care across the healthcare systems. The approach for these digital platform range from centralized or federated decentralized and distributed architectures. In parallel, service such a electronic prescription have also been deployed on a large scale to address the question of data quality and consistency and administrative simplification. Unfortunately, the organisational fragmentation of healthcare (into it different sectors, such a primary care secondary hospital care and long term care) and the difference in the organization of the health care system (insurance based or not) continue to lead to similar fragmentation of digital system in place. Other element which have played a role in this fragmentation are: insufficient level of investment in key infrastructure and infostructure building blocks, proprietary standards, insufficient coordination between authority and the weight of legacy systems. ChallengesTodays Challenges for the Digital Transformation of the Healthcare Sector There are a number of current challenge facing the healthcare sector in term of it ongoing digital transformation. These often relate to specific type of technologies. In response to today health care needs, mHealth offer a potential solution. It is playing a rapidly greater role in both health and social care, increasingly supplanting earlier technology such a telemedicine and telehealth; in general, it enables communication among health care professional and clinician and patient using instant messaging and chat platform such a WhatsApp. The challenge now is to integrate mHealth with existing EHRs platform to become an integral part of the overall digital system and network. Other potential area (including technologies) for digitisation in health care that can be supported by open digital platforms, reference architectures, open solution and trusted network are: Trusted big data solution and cybersecurity for health and care and for a fair data economy in health and care; Open eco-systems and related governance principle to support innovation in health and care; Deployment of robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and autonomous system for healthcare (including social robots); Enabling cross-cutting technologies, e.g. testing devices, wearables, Internet of Things (IoT), to address healthcare at the point of need (in the community, at home or in the move). Sector Specific PlatformsA number of platforms, and associated ecosystems, have been developed during the last ten year in each of the specific sector covered by OPEN DEI. Several are evident in the field of healthcare. Of importance to platform are the platform-related activity identified a the six Ps by OPEN DEI. Besides platforms, the other five are: products, processes, people, partnership(s), and performance. In healthcare, various platform have emerged at European level since 2010 and have developed their own ecosystem, including the following: EPSOSHealthcare Epos TheepSOS project(2011-2014) heralded significant progress in cross border care in EHRs and ePrescribing. epSOS, meaning Smart Open Services for European Patients, wa a European large-scale pilot testing the cross-border sharing of certain health data: a summary of a patient most important health data in case of unplanned care (the patient summary) and the electronic prescription (ePrescription). The outcome produced by epSOS have been further worked out by other project and serve a basis for CEF-eHealth call and the eHealth Digital Service Infrastructure (eHDSI). CloseHealthcare Activage ACTIVAGE (2017-2020) is a Multi Centric Large Scale Pilot on Smart Living Environments. The main objective is to build the first European IoT ecosystem across 9 deployment site in seven European countries. CloseUniversAALHealthcare UniversAAL UniversAAL project(2010-2014) wa a Coordination and Support Action with the objectiveto make it easier for the ICT industry in Europe to develop and successfully deploy solution for Ambient/Active Assisted Living (AAL). To achieve this, the project is developing an open standardized platform/specification on which the AAL service provider can quickly and cheaply build AAL services. Work continued in 2014-2018. CloseAEGLEHealthcare AEGLE AEGLE(2015-2018) developed an innovative ICT solution addressing the whole data value chain for health. It wa based on various technologies: cloud computing enabling dynamic resource allocation, High Performance Computing (HPC) infrastructure for computational acceleration and advanced visualization techniques. CloseSignificant Innovation Policy Initiatives and Ecosystems in the DomainVarious ongoing innovation policy-oriented initiative can potentially help overcome the organisational fragmentation and build sustainability of interaction in the field. They include the following list of initiative and ecosystems: which involves European Member States and regions, and include member country from outside Europe; , known a EIT-Health; ; The and the joint action supporting it work (the current Joint Action being ); , which again involves a different combination of Member States and country outside Europe; . Several of these initiative especially AAL, EIP on AHA, and the JPI MYBL together are currently exploring the possibility of forming larger post-2020 partnerships: a co-written joint statement outline their synergies. Significant Standards Initiatives in the DomainFrom the beginning, electronic identification, interoperability and standardization have been and are still key issues. They have been addressed at national, international and European level e.g. with EU-funded project aiming at enabling cross-border data exchange between these national and regional platforms. Several standardization initiatives, sometimes competing, have emerged at local, European and International levels. Recent effort have tried to classify the standard against a reference framework and improve the usability of selected standards: An eHealth Interoperability Framework (eEIF) ha been defined and it refined version (ReEIF) ha been adopted by the eHealth Network in November 2015. This common framework is a mean for managing interoperability and standardisation challenge in the eHealth domain in Europe. A Conformity Assessment Scheme (CAS) for Europe ha furthermore been developed. It promotes the adoption and take-up of interoperability testing mechanism for testing eHealth solution against standard and profile defined in the ReEIF. The European Interoperability Framework (EIF) supported by the project ISA ha also produced 47 cross-domain recommendation for the use of standard and specification to set up interoperable digital public services. Examples of standard initiative and body in the healthcare domain include: To support interoperability at syntactic level: HL7-FHIR HL7-CDA OPEN EHR CEN 13606 To support interoperability at semantic level: SNOMED-CT WHO classification (ICD, ICNP,ICF) UCUM, LOINC ICPC ATC, MedDRA To support interoperability at architecture level: UniversAAL FIWARE IDS Reference Architecture Continua Health Alliance To support interoperability testing of use cases: IHE profile OPEN DEI ProjectsHealthcare InteropEHRate EHR in people hand across Europe InteropEHRate goal is to complement and integrate the current interoperability infrastructure with new technology for health data exchange centred on the person, based on a bottom-up approach that doe not require the coordination by a superior authority and that leaf more control of health data to the people. InteropEHRate is a 4 year project which started in January 2019. CloseHealthcare Smart4Health Smart4Health will develop, test and validate a platform prototype for the Smart4Health citizen-centred health record with integrated ability for aggregation of data, for sharing and for data provision/donorship to the scientific community. Smart4Health is a 4 year project which started in January 2019. CloseHealthcare ACTIVAGE ACTIVAGE is a European Multi Centric Large-Scale Pilot on Smart Living Environments. The main objective is to build the first European IoT ecosystem across 9 Deployment Sites (DS) in seven European countries, reusing and scaling up underlying open and proprietary IoT platforms, technology and standards, and integrating new interface needed to provide interoperability across these heterogeneous platforms, that will enable the deployment and operation at large scale of Active & Healthy Ageing IoT based solution and services, supporting and extending the independent living of older adult in their living environments, and responding to real need of caregivers, service provider and public authorities. CloseHealthcare PHARAON - Pilots for Healthy and Active Ageing PHArA-ON overall objective is to make a reality smart and active living for Europes ageing population. This objective will be pursued by creating a set of integrated and highly customizable interoperable open platform with advanced services, devices, and tool including IoT, Artificial Intelligence, robotics, Cloud Computing, smart wearables, Big Data, and intelligent analytics. Platform interoperability will be implemented within PHArA-ON ecosystem and platforms, a well a other standardised platform within health and other domain (Energy, Transport and Smart Cities). PHArA-ON will be built upon mature existing state-of-the-art open platform and technologies/tools provided by the partners, which will be customised and will implement cloud technologies, AI technique and traditional algorithm for Big Data intelligent analytics. A user-centric approach will be followed. CloseHealthcare SMART BEAR The aim of the SMART BEAR platform is to integrate heterogeneous sensors, assistive medical and mobile device to enable the continuous data collection from the everyday life of the elderly, which will be analysed to obtain the evidence needed in order to offer personalised intervention promoting their healthy and independent living. The platform will also be connected to hospital and other health care service system to obtain data of the end user (e.g., medical history) that will need to be considered in making decision for interventions. SMART BEAR will leverage Big Data Analytics and learning capabilities, allowing for large scale analysis of the above mentioned collected data, to generate the evidence required for making decision about personalised interventions. CloseHealthcare GATEKEEPER GATEKEEPER will connect healthcare providers, businesses, entrepreneurs, elderly citizen and the community they live in, in order to originate an open, trust-based arena for matching ideas, technologies, user need and processes, aimed at ensuring healthier independent life for the ageing populations. By 2022, GATEKEEPER will be embodied in an open source, European, standard-based, interoperable and secure framework available to all developers, for creating combined digital solution for personalised early detection and intervention that (i) harness the next generation of healthcare and wellness innovations; (ii) cover the whole care continuum for elderly citizens, including primary, secondary and tertiary prevention, chronic disease and co-morbidities; (iii) straightforwardly fit by design with European regulations, on data protection, consumer protection and patient protection (iv) are subjected to trustable certification processes; (iv) support value generation through the deployment of advanced business model based on the VBHC paradigm. CloseHealthcare SHAPES SHAPES aim to create the first European open Ecosystem enabling the large-scale deployment of a broad range of digital solution for supporting and extending healthy and independent living for older individual who are facing permanently or temporarily reduced functionality and capabilities. SHAPES build an interoperable Platform integrating smart digital solution to collect and analyse older individual health, environmental and lifestyle information, identify their need and provide personalised solution that uphold the individual data protection and trust. Standardisation, interoperability and scalability of SHAPES Platform sustain increased efficiency gain in health and care delivery across Europe, bringing improved quality of life to older individuals, their families, caregiver and care service providers. SHAPES Large-scale Piloting campaign engages +2k older individual in 15 pilot site in 10 EU Member States, including 6 EIP on AHA Reference Sites, and involves hundred of key stakeholder to bring forth solution to improve the health, wellbeing, independence and autonomy of older individuals, while enhancing the long-term sustainability of health and care systems. CloseHealthcare ADLIFE ADLIFE aim to provide a solution for the integration of therapy and approach targeting early detection and assessment of deterioration, advanced and well-coordinated care planning and integrated supportive care. ADLIFE will deploy developed and validated personalised digital solution for integrated supportive care based on H2020 project C3-Cloud and power2DM tested in two health systems. The project will prove that intelligent, collaborative digital solution can enable care teams, patient and care giver to improve or better maintain health in patient with advance chronic disease. CloseHealthcare FAITH FAITH is an EU-funded research project that aim to provide an Artificial Intelligence application that remotely identifies and analysis depression markers, using Federated Learning, to predict negative trend in people that have undergone cancer treatment. This concept will provide healthcare provider with advanced warning to allow timely intervention and allow cancer patient to be more aware of their mental health and thus improve their quality of life. FAITH is a 3-year project which started in January 2020, funded under the H2020 call H2020-SC1-DTH-2019 (Big data and Artificial Intelligence for monitoring health status and quality of life after the cancer treatment). CloseHealthcare AICCELERATE Healthcare system lack flexible Artificial Intelligence (AI) solution that allow hospital to improve efficiency and the quality of patient care. Current solution provide limited scalability and are confined to isolated applications. Scalable model that address data sharing, integration, privacy, and ethic are needed to ensure better adoption of AI in healthcare. AICCELERATE is an innovative project that will boost hospital care through 3 concrete pilot that will be carried out in 5 European hospitals. These pilot will develop the existing digital solution further to improve quality of health and care. Pilots will serve a a mean to apply the already existing AI-based solution to different realities, demonstrating the scalability of the AICCELERATE model. CloseHealthcare AIDPATH AIDPATH stand for AI powered, Decentralized Production for Advanced Therapies in the Hospital. In the EU project AIDPATH, researcher are developing a system for the production of so-called CAR-T cell for the treatment of cancer. It is capable of integrating patient-related data and biomarkers into the therapy process using artificial intelligence. The CAR-T cell are produced close to the patient, directly in the hospital. This will make it possible in the future to provide patient treatment specifically tailored to their need much more quickly. CloseHealthcare HOSMARTAI The main objective of HosmartAI is to promote an effective and efficient healthcare system transformation by the use of AI and robotics technological developments. To achieve this transformation, HosmartAI will create a common open Integration Platform with the necessary tool to facilitate and measure the benefit of integrating digital technology in hospital and care facilities. The platform will be validated through 8 large-scale Pilots, which also target advancement in cancer, gastrointestinal disorders, cardiovascular diseases, thoracic disorders, neurological diseases, ageing & elderly care, pregnancy. For more info: www.hosmartai.eu CloseHealthcare TENDER affecTive basEd iNtegrateD carE for betteR Quality of Life (TeNDER) is a multi-sectoral EU project. Together with users, TeNDER will develop and test an integrated care model for patient diagnosed with Alzheimers disease (and other form of dementia), Parkinsons disease, and/or cardiovascular diseases. The key aim are to help extend patient independence safely and ease the burden of care, and to facilitate communication across patient care provision systems. CloseHealthcare ICU4COVID ICU4COVID is a Cyber-Physical System for Telemedicine and Intensive Care (CPS4TIC) a medicine solution for well respond to COVID-19 further outbreak or similar infectious diseases. The CPS4TIC consists of a telemedicine cockpit, a connector platform and smart hubs. The hub continuous real-time telemonitoring and smart care environment. The CPS4TIC is shaped for delivery of the level oftreatment that is needed for the individual patient in an effective, economic, and efficient manner. By integrated use of telemedicine, the time gain for diagnosis and treatment are significant. Thus, resource can be used more efficiently, and staff exposure will be further diminished. CloseOPEN DEI Next StepsTopical priority have been discussed and selected within the Healthcare cluster. They relate to dissemination, use cases, KPIs, architecture, standard and reusable component and GDPR. 5 Working groups, each led by a different project, have been created. Their first mission is to be able to provide initial information in order to describe the use case and the associated requirements. This will allow then an informed discussion on the technical choice to be operated. The OPEN DEI Large scale Pilots dashboard will give more visibility to what is domain specific and what can travel across domains, leveraging thus more synergy opportunity and creating new awareness. This is particularly true for reference architecture which increasingly need to be able to integrate data from Internet of Things or from other health determinant which are not healthcare specifics. Find more: OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Resources Resources2022-10-01T14:14:38+02:00 Search for: 2023-02-16T13:55:40+01:00 2022-10-25T13:50:22+02:00 2022-10-25T13:47:52+02:00 2023-02-20T17:17:39+01:00 2022-07-28T15:14:04+02:00 2022-06-29T17:06:34+02:00 2022-03-08T20:59:22+01:00 2022-03-09T00:01:56+01:00 2022-03-09T00:00:21+01:00 2021-12-09T10:57:59+01:00 2020-11-20T18:26:55+01:00 2020-11-18T17:57:45+01:00 2020-11-18T16:23:01+01:00 2020-11-18T18:12:03+01:00 2020-11-18T16:26:10+01:00 2020-11-18T16:25:01+01:00 2020-11-18T16:45:52+01:00 2020-05-28T15:51:15+02:00 2020-11-18T16:34:45+01:00 2020-11-18T16:38:20+01:00 2020-11-18T17:03:18+01:00 2020-11-18T17:04:17+01:00 2020-11-18T16:32:26+01:00 2020-05-14T16:53:30+02:00 2020-11-18T16:32:06+01:00 2020-11-18T16:57:06+01:00 2020-11-18T17:05:55+01:00 2020-11-18T16:32:50+01:00 2020-11-18T16:29:37+01:00 2020-11-18T17:25:09+01:00 2020-11-18T17:17:09+01:00 2020-05-11T07:23:18+02:00 2020-05-11T07:25:09+02:00 2020-05-11T07:27:01+02:00 2020-05-11T07:28:31+02:00 2020-05-11T07:30:16+02:00 2020-11-18T18:14:20+01:00 2020-05-11T07:34:43+02:00 2020-05-11T07:36:52+02:00 2021-01-08T12:17:42+01:00 2020-02-20T17:11:03+01:00 2020-11-18T17:09:16+01:00 2022-03-08T20:36:25+01:00 2020-11-18T16:42:06+01:00 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. News News2019-11-06T11:55:31+01:00 102, 2023 During the EHTEL Symposium 2022, OPEN DEI wa present with a session emphasizing project [...] 2111, 2022 One milestone is coming to an end, another is just starting. At the end [...] 710, 2022 OPEN DEI strives to implement all effort to benefit the target project ecosystem in [...] 2609, 2022 The SmartAgriHubs project is delighted to invite you to it final event in Lisbonfrom [...] 2509, 2022 The webinar Dealing with Data Spaceswas performed on September 22 by ATOS in collaboration [...] 1509, 2022 The webinar Dealing with Open-Source wa performed on September 9 from 11:00 to 12:00 [...] 1 Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Newsletter Newsletter2023-02-19T15:28:16+01:00 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Events Events2022-03-08T06:58:02+01:00 Search for: Upcoming EventsPast Events28 November 2022- 08:00 - 29 November 2022- 17:001 June 2022- 12:00 - 13:1530 May 2022 - 2 June 202218 May 2022- 10:00 - 12:453 May 2022- 14:00 - 17:0029 April 2022- 10:00 - 12:0025 April 2022- 15:00 - 16:3021 April 2022- 11:30 - 12:506 April 2022- 12:00 - 13:0031 March 2022- 14:00 - 15:3017 March 2022- 10:00 - 12:0016 March 2022- 09:30 - 12:0015 March 2022 - 16 March 20223 March 2022- 14:30 - 16:303 March 2022- 10:00 - 11:301 March 2022- 09:00 - 3 March 2022- 17:0018 February 2022- 09:00 - 13:0011 January 2022- 08:00 - 13 January 2022- 17:0016 December 2021- 09:00 - 13:3014 December 2021- 14:00 - 15:3025 November 2021- 10:30 - 12:301 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Upcoming Events Loading view. There are no upcoming events. There are no upcoming events. Events Search and Views Navigation Search Enter Keyword. Search for Events by Keyword. Find Events Event Views Navigation List Now onwards Now onwards Select date. Next Events Subscribe to calendar OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Webinars Webinars2022-03-07T17:24:42+01:00 Search for: Upcoming WebinarsPast Webinars1 June 2022- 12:00 - 13:153 May 2022- 14:00 - 17:0025 April 2022- 15:00 - 16:3021 April 2022- 11:30 - 12:506 April 2022- 12:00 - 13:0031 March 2022- 14:00 - 15:3017 March 2022- 10:00 - 12:008 November 2021- 08:00 - 17:0019 May 2021- 15:00 - 16:3018 May 2021- 09:30 - 12:3029 April 2021- 15:00 - 16:3027 April 2021- 13:30 - 16:0030 March 2021- 09:30 - 10:3024 March 2021- 09:30 - 10:3010 March 2021- 10:30 - 12:0010 February 2021- 09:30 - 11:3028 January 2021- 10:00 - 12:0020 January 2021- 13:00 - 16:0011 December 2020- 10:00 - 11:304 December 2020- 15:00 - 16:0026 November 2020- 14:00 - 16:3025 November 2020- 13:00 - 14:0012 November 2020- 14:00 - 16:3012 November 2020- 11:00 - 12:005 November 2020- 11:00 - 12:001 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Open Calls Open Calls2023-02-22T11:40:47+01:00 Open CallsFunding Opportunities for the Digital Transformation of European Industry. 2022 Open CallsSHAPES Project 3rd Open Call 17th March 2023 VITALISE Project 2nd Open Call 8h January 2023 BD4NRG Open Call Ongoing until 15th December 2022 CEF Digital Call on Operational Digital Platforms for Energy and Mobility Ongoing until 23rd February 2023 Sitra Call for Pilot Projects on Data Sharing Applications Ongoing until 29th September 2023 HosmartAI Open Call 2 November 22nd 2022 ODIN Open Call September 29th 2022 InterConnect Open Call July 26th 2022 EHDEN Open Call April 13th 2022 HoSmartAI Open Call April 8th 2022 Synergy Open Call Jan 31st April 6th 2022 OneNet Open Call Dec 1, 2021 Feb 1, 2022 2021 Open CallsINTERRFACE Open Call INTERRFACE Open Call KYKLOS 4.0 Open Call Apr 1, 2021 Jun 30, 2021 ATLAS Open Call #2 May 3 Sep 1, 2021 GATEKEEPER Open Call #2 Jul, 2021 SmartAgriHubs Open Call EXPAND Jul 8, 2020 Jul 28, 2021 SmartAgriHubs Open Call RESTART Jul 8, 2020 Jul 28, 2021 Past Open CallsSubmission is closed now Stay tuned for more opportunities! PLATOON Open Call Jan 4, 2021 Mar 4, 2021 European Factory Platform Open Call Oct 19, 2020 Feb 19, 2021 SHAPES Open Call #1 Dec 1, 2020 Jan 31, 2021 GATEKEEPER Open Call #1 Nov 16, 2020 Jan 29, 2021 agROBOfood Industrial Challenges Open Call Oct 20, 2020 Jan 20, 2021 DEMETER Open Call #1 DEVELOP Sep 16 Nov 18, 2020 QU4LITY Open Call Jun 8 Sep 18, 2020 ATLAS Open Call #1 May 8 Sep 15, 2020 agROBOfood Open Call #1 Mar 1 Sep 1, 2020 SmartAgriHubs Open Call RESPOND May 12 Jun 3, 2020 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Contact Contact2020-01-15T18:42:04+01:00 Get in touchContact Form OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. ideavale About ideavale This author ha not yet filled in any details.So far ideavale ha created 0 blog entries. OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. OPEN DEI contribution to the health care research community EHTEL Symposium OPEN DEI contribution to the health care research community EHTEL Symposium During the OPEN DEI wa present with a session emphasizing project contribution to the health care research community With the support of Large scale pilot in four different domains, OPEN DEI ha identified the building block of technology for Data Space and their use in different domains. In parallel OPEN DEI ha cooperatively developed a Business Impact and Benchmarking Framework to support OPENDEI project in maximizing the socio-economic impact of Digital Transformations, with a clear focus on data. This session delivered the key message resulting from this first trial to bring together different domain to support the emergence of cross domain Data spaces. Check out the full session here: For more information on EHTEL Symposium, check the website . 2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00 Share it! Related Posts June 21st, 2022 | May 20th, 2022 | May 17th, 2022 | May 17th, 2022 | Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Healthcare 2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00 During the EHTEL Symposium 2022, OPEN DEI wa present with a session emphasizing project [...] OPEN DEI contribution to the health care research community EHTEL Symposium2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00 2022-06-21T12:51:14+02:00 Great news coming from the OPEN DEI Healthcare cluster which ha obtained a CEN [...] OPEN DEI Healthcare cluster obtains a CEN Workshop Agreement (CWA) Good practice guide for obtaining user consent for personal health information2022-06-21T12:51:14+02:00 2022-05-20T11:54:24+02:00 Ana Ortega Gil, Digital Health Researcher from ADLIFE Co-ordinating Partner Kronikgune Institute for Health [...] ADLIFE Project Researcher win MIT INNOVATORS UNDER 35 Europe 2022 Award2022-05-20T11:54:24+02:00 2022-05-17T12:25:04+02:00 A citizen-centric approach to data sharing that is complementary to the current healthcare-centred model [...] Unleashing personal health data for care and research The InteropEHRate approach2022-05-17T12:25:04+02:00 2022-05-17T12:17:21+02:00 The project goal is to demonstrate the scalability of the AI solution provided by [...] AICCELERATE keep working on the Smart Hospital Care Pathway Engine, the scalable AI tool that will allow the implementation of 3 pilot in five European hospitals2022-05-17T12:17:21+02:00 2022-05-17T11:35:22+02:00 Use case on Acute Care, Telemedicine and Telecare are gaining momentum In the framework [...] Towards Telehealth Europe with ICU4COVID, Smart4Health, ERN-ACT and DS4Health2022-05-17T11:35:22+02:00 2022-05-17T18:24:04+02:00 The SHAPES project participated in theIN-4-AHAs first matchmaking event,showcasing how SHAPES promotes active and [...] SHAPES showcased at IN-4-AHA matchmaking event2022-05-17T18:24:04+02:00 2022-05-17T18:21:40+02:00 One year of HosmartAI, Hospital Smart development based on AI ha passed with a [...] HosmartAI, working towards a healthcare system that is strong and resilient2022-05-17T18:21:40+02:00 2022-05-17T18:18:17+02:00 Every citizen of the European Union should be able to access her or his [...] Smart4Health enables EU citizen to manage and bridge their health data2022-05-17T18:18:17+02:00 2022-05-17T18:30:04+02:00 SmartBear ha been recenlty honoured with the best paper award in the 8th International [...] SmartBear win the best paper award in the 8th International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies for Ageing Well2022-05-17T18:30:04+02:00 1 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Alba Balla About Alba Balla This author ha not yet filled in any details.So far Alba Balla ha created 29 blog entries. 2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00 During the EHTEL Symposium 2022, OPEN DEI wa present with a session emphasizing project [...] OPEN DEI contribution to the health care research community EHTEL Symposium2023-02-01T11:04:18+01:00 2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00 One milestone is coming to an end, another is just starting. At the end [...] OPEN DEI Final Event Aftermovie and Presentations2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00 2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00 OPEN DEI strives to implement all effort to benefit the target project ecosystem in [...] OPEN DEI community success celebration2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00 2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00 The SmartAgriHubs project is delighted to invite you to it final event in Lisbonfrom [...] SmartAgriHubs Final Event2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00 2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00 The webinar Dealing with Data Spaceswas performed on September 22 by ATOS in collaboration [...] Watch now online the OPEN DEI Webinar Dealing with Data Spaces2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00 2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00 The webinar Dealing with Open-Source wa performed on September 9 from 11:00 to 12:00 [...] Watch now online the OPEN DEI webinar on Dealing with Open-Source2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00 2022-06-21T12:51:14+02:00 Great news coming from the OPEN DEI Healthcare cluster which ha obtained a CEN [...] OPEN DEI Healthcare cluster obtains a CEN Workshop Agreement (CWA) Good practice guide for obtaining user consent for personal health information2022-06-21T12:51:14+02:00 2022-05-20T11:54:24+02:00 Ana Ortega Gil, Digital Health Researcher from ADLIFE Co-ordinating Partner Kronikgune Institute for Health [...] ADLIFE Project Researcher win MIT INNOVATORS UNDER 35 Europe 2022 Award2022-05-20T11:54:24+02:00 2022-05-17T12:25:04+02:00 A citizen-centric approach to data sharing that is complementary to the current healthcare-centred model [...] Unleashing personal health data for care and research The InteropEHRate approach2022-05-17T12:25:04+02:00 2022-05-17T12:17:21+02:00 The project goal is to demonstrate the scalability of the AI solution provided by [...] AICCELERATE keep working on the Smart Hospital Care Pathway Engine, the scalable AI tool that will allow the implementation of 3 pilot in five European hospitals2022-05-17T12:17:21+02:00 1 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. OPEN DEI Final Event Aftermovie and Presentations OPEN DEI Final Event Aftermovie and Presentations One milestone is coming to an end, another is just starting. At the end of October, the conclusion of the OPEN DEI project in Brussels wa accompanied by a one-day event. The event proved once again that OPENDEI.eu in all it diversity ha laid decisive cornerstone for a fast, fair and uniform digitization of internationally operating companies. The outstanding project prof that it wa an essential pillar of the implementation of digitizing European industry policies. The significant output of this strong collaboration is a strategic roadmap for digital transformation, data space and a recommendation how to move forward. And the journey is not over yet. The foundation created by OPEN DEI will play a central role in the Data Spaces Support Centre, which aim to create a blueprint for data spaces. In this way, we can ensure that pan-European data space are compatible and interoperable from the outset to drive the data-driven digital transformation in the European Community. All the presentation held during the event, can be checked here: Have a look at what happened during the OPEN DEI Final Event in Brussels: 2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00 Share it! Related Posts September 25th, 2022 | September 15th, 2022 | April 17th, 2022 | April 11th, 2022 | Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Senza categoria 2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00 One milestone is coming to an end, another is just starting. At the end [...] OPEN DEI Final Event Aftermovie and Presentations2022-11-28T14:36:27+01:00 2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00 The webinar Dealing with Data Spaceswas performed on September 22 by ATOS in collaboration [...] Watch now online the OPEN DEI Webinar Dealing with Data Spaces2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00 2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00 The webinar Dealing with Open-Source wa performed on September 9 from 11:00 to 12:00 [...] Watch now online the OPEN DEI webinar on Dealing with Open-Source2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00 , 2022-05-17T12:19:14+02:00 In May 2022, the Gatekeeper project will launch a Call for Twinnings As part [...] Scaling-up innovative practice from the Gatekeeper project to other region in Europe2022-05-17T12:19:14+02:00 2022-04-11T11:02:28+02:00 On 6 April OPEN DEI organized a webinar under the umbrella of it business [...] Boosting the Results Exploitation across European Projects2022-04-11T11:02:28+02:00 , 2022-05-17T18:28:26+02:00 Pharaon Pilots for Active and Healthy Ageing partner Grontople Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Information Catalyst [...] Pharaon promotes it healthy and active ageing platform at AgeingFit2022-05-17T18:28:26+02:00 2022-03-08T00:06:45+01:00 Thanks to everyone who joined u for the webinar on #Digitalmaturity of key Domains [...] OPEN DEI webinar on #Digitalmaturity2022-03-08T00:06:45+01:00 2022-03-08T00:12:56+01:00 Luc Nicolas participated last March 1stat PlatformUpteke.eu Networking and Brokerage event at AgeingFit Aligning [...] OPEN DEI presented at AGEINGFIT Conference2022-03-08T00:12:56+01:00 2022-03-08T00:10:23+01:00 The GATEKEEPER Community of Interest is holding it 2workshop under the business territory. It [...] GATEKEEPER Community of Interest Workshop2022-03-08T00:10:23+01:00 2022-03-08T00:16:56+01:00 On 2 December 2021, following the first call for proposal of the Digital Europe [...] OPEN DEI collaborates on the mobility data space workshop organized by EC2022-03-08T00:16:56+01:00 1 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. OPEN DEI community success celebration OPEN DEI community success celebration OPEN DEI strives to implement all effort to benefit the target project ecosystem in more than 35 project in four domains: manufacturing, agriculture, energy and healthcare and beyond. OPEN DEI ha embraced the transformation of digitalization and support the challenge and impact of digital platform and data platform a well a data spaces. In addition, OPEN DEI support data platform to evolve into data spaces. To develop this task, we have defined two strategies: Task Forces to collectively address mid to long term challenge initiated by current project but to be fully implemented through next generation HEP or DEP initiative (e.g. Data Spaces; Business Ecosystems; Twin Transition) Working Groups that specifically address short term issue and contribute to the project objective and deliverables. The final event of OPEN DEI will demonstrate the result achieved by the entire OPEN DEI community and will initiate interesting discussion on the topic of digital transformation in the 4 domains: Its opportunity and challenges. We will briefly present the key enablers to support company in their digital transformation: Data space building block for co-creation Building a data-driven business ecosystem Architectures for digital platform and interoperability Impact of digital transformation on business In an interactive workshop we will discus the sustainability of the OPEN DEI results. We will provide an overview of where we are, what is missing and most importantly, how the missing challenge or gap can be further worked on. These conclusion will be an interesting input for the European Commission and a short report with recommendations. The outcome of the event will be a strategic roadmap for digital transformation and data space and a recommendation how to move forward. Rough outline of the agenda (draft): 9:30 Registration 10:00 Welcome address 10:05 Digital transformation in the four domains: opportunity and challenge | Introductory presentation by the European Commission Break 12:00 Key enablers for supporting company on digital transformation: co-creation of data space building block | data-powered business ecosystem building | architecture and interoperability of digital platform | business impact of digital transformation Lunch 14:00 From data platform to data space | knowledge corner | two parallel streams: technical and business Break 15:30 OPEN DEIs big impact 16:00 Closing statement If you wish to register for the event, please visit the . 2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00 Share it! Related Posts June 10th, 2021 | June 1st, 2021 | May 26th, 2021 | May 24th, 2021 | Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Events 2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00 OPEN DEI strives to implement all effort to benefit the target project ecosystem in [...] OPEN DEI community success celebration2022-10-07T10:59:13+02:00 , 2021-06-10T11:38:23+02:00 With the aim to explore the wealth of research carried out internationally on digital [...] WHO Digital and Assistive Technologies for Ageing webinar: Insights from European large-scale pilot projects2021-06-10T11:38:23+02:00 , 2021-06-01T17:27:05+02:00 QU4LITY project aim to reach the Zero Defects Manufacturing (ZDM) stage through an orchestrated [...] QU4LITY 2nd Open Call Register for the informative webinar2021-06-01T17:27:05+02:00 , 2021-05-26T09:58:51+02:00 INTERRFACE project, co-funded from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under [...] 3rd INTERRFACE Open Call Webinar2021-05-26T09:58:51+02:00 , 2021-05-24T15:35:29+02:00 This session will tackle one of the most important sector for Europe, Agriculture (and [...] Join the session A smart and sustainable digital future for European agriculture @ Data Week2021-05-24T15:35:29+02:00 , 2021-05-18T10:19:22+02:00 In the context of OPEN DEI Energy Working Group Data Exchange and [...] Present and Future of Data Exchange Architectures for Smart Energy2021-05-18T10:19:22+02:00 , 2021-05-05T14:47:33+02:00 NGIoT Thematic workshop series on IoT and Edge Computing This workshop on Energy is [...] OPEN DEI @ NGIoT Thematic Workshop on Energy2021-05-05T14:47:33+02:00 , 2021-04-26T15:40:41+02:00 NGIoT Thematic workshop series on IoT and Edge Computing This workshop on Manufacturing is [...] OPEN DEI @ NGIoT Thematic Workshop on Manufacturing2021-04-26T15:40:41+02:00 2021-03-16T15:33:15+01:00 Data Weekis the spring gathering of the European Big Data and Data-Driven AI research [...] Save the date for Data Week 20212021-03-16T15:33:15+01:00 , 2021-03-16T14:57:29+01:00 OPEN DEI will lead the session "Driving collaboration for EU agritech actor with OPEN [...] Driving collaboration for EU agritech actor with OPEN DEI @ IoF2020 Final Event2021-03-16T14:57:29+01:00 1 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. SmartAgriHubs Final Event SmartAgriHubs Final Event The SmartAgriHubs project is delighted to invite you to it final event in Lisbonfrom 26th to 28th September 2022! As SmartAgriHubs is coming to an end this year, the project is now celebrating it legacy and sustainability. And there is no better way of doing that than together with all of you! Format:Live event Location:Lisbon Congress Center Dates:26 September to 28September 2022 More info here: https://www.smartagrihubs.eu/final-event 2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00 Share it! Related Posts May 24th, 2021 | May 7th, 2021 | March 10th, 2021 | March 8th, 2021 | Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Agri-food 2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00 The SmartAgriHubs project is delighted to invite you to it final event in Lisbonfrom [...] SmartAgriHubs Final Event2022-09-26T20:06:06+02:00 , 2021-05-24T15:35:29+02:00 This session will tackle one of the most important sector for Europe, Agriculture (and [...] Join the session A smart and sustainable digital future for European agriculture @ Data Week2021-05-24T15:35:29+02:00 2021-05-07T15:58:31+02:00 The evolution of the agricultural sector requires the incorporation and adaptation of the latest [...] ATLAS 2nd Open Call for Innovative Ideas and Solutions2021-05-07T15:58:31+02:00 , 2021-03-16T14:57:29+01:00 OPEN DEI will lead the session "Driving collaboration for EU agritech actor with OPEN [...] Driving collaboration for EU agritech actor with OPEN DEI @ IoF2020 Final Event2021-03-16T14:57:29+01:00 , 2021-03-16T14:44:55+01:00 OPEN DEI will lead the session "Upcoming Open Calls" at IoF2020 Final Event on [...] OPEN DEI presenting Agri-Food Upcoming Open Calls @ IoF2020 Final Event2021-03-16T14:44:55+01:00 , 2021-02-02T09:58:50+01:00 The Internet of Food and Farm 2020 project is delighted to invite you to [...] Save the date for IoF2020 Final Event2021-02-02T09:58:50+01:00 2021-01-08T12:42:29+01:00 The OPEN DEI Agri-food Ecosystem currently brings together five H2020 Innovation Actions, DEMETER, ATLAS, [...] The OPEN DEI Agri-food Ecosystem Brings Together Five H2020 Innovation Actions2021-01-08T12:42:29+01:00 2020-11-24T12:07:27+01:00 Author: Manuel Winter, IoF2020 project. As an EU Affairs Advisor at Schuttelaar & Partners, [...] Internet of Food and Farm 2020 on Tour2020-11-24T12:07:27+01:00 , 2020-11-25T14:36:59+01:00 DEMETER is a H2020 project focused on large-scale deployment of farmer-driven, interoperable smart farming-IoT [...] Join DEMETER Open Call Webinar!2020-11-25T14:36:59+01:00 , , , 2020-11-24T14:54:47+01:00 OPEN DEI aims, among other objectives, at harmonizing and coordinating different Digital Transformation [...] OPEN DEI Reference Architecture for cross-domain Digital Transformation2020-11-24T14:54:47+01:00 1 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Watch now online the OPEN DEI Webinar Dealing with Data Spaces Watch now online the OPEN DEI Webinar Dealing with Data Spaces The webinar Dealing with Data Spaceswas performed on September 22 by ATOS in collaboration with IDSA, under the scope of the OPEN DEI project. The speaker Marko Turpeinen (CEO at 1001lakes), Mike de Roode (Business Process Management at TNO), Juan Carlos Prez (Researcher & Project Director in Blockchain, Identity & Privacy Unit at ATOS Spain) and Arturo Medela (Project Director in Energy, Climate & Decarbonization Unit at Atos Spain) dealt with several data space topic such a Data space governance, Data space model & interoperability, Security in data space and Data space added value. 2022-09-26T17:33:23+02:00 Share it! Related Posts November 21st, 2022 | September 15th, 2022 | April 17th, 2022 | April 11th, 2022 | Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Watch now online the OPEN DEI webinar on Dealing with Open-Source Watch now online the OPEN DEI webinar on Dealing with Open-Source The webinar Dealing with Open-Source wa performed on September 9 from 11:00 to 12:00 under the scope of the OPEN DEI project. The main speaker Lara Lopez, dealt with several Open-Source topic such a the type of license available in the market, best practice selecting/using O.S and the existing O.S communities. 2022-09-15T16:55:02+02:00 Share it! Related Posts November 21st, 2022 | September 25th, 2022 | April 17th, 2022 | April 11th, 2022 | Search for: Categories Recent Posts Recent Tweets OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Home2023-01-27T18:53:20+01:00 Open DEI About Open DEIAligning Reference Architectures, Open Platforms and Large-Scale Pilots in Digitising European Industry The digital transformation strategy of the European Union has, amongothers, a particular priority: the creation of common data platform based on a unified architecture and an established standard. As part of theHorizon 2020 programme, the OPEN DEI project focus on Platforms and Pilots to support the implementation of next generation digital platform in four basic industrial domains: Opening the eye of European industry and society to the return from Digital Transformation ObjectivesOPEN DEI strives to implement all effort for the benefit of the target project ecosystem: Task Forces to collectively address medium to long term challenge to be initiated by current project but fully implemented by next generation HEP or DEP initiative (e.g. Data Spaces; Business Ecosystems; Twin Transition) Working Groups to specifically address short term issue and contribute to project objective and deliverable DATA SHARING SPACESTask Force 1 Data space expert team up to define for the first time cross-sectoral and across initiative the fundamental design principle to build data spaces. Platform Building Design Principles for Data Spaces originates by need and discussion held at sector-specific working group level a well a the expert group discussion and confrontation held for the birth of the white paper Design Principles for data space Task Force 1 objectives: Data Spaces design principle Knowledge Transfer and Cross-fertilisation between project To ass building block and identify implementation to harmonise the data space Building Blocks and create a building block catalogues. To investigate the existing minimal viable data spaces, the implementation phase and commonalities. And provide guideline for data space deployment Task Force 1 activities: First iteration OPEN DEI Task Force 1 Iteration 1 brought together expert from four domain and various data space initiative to collaborate and define the design principle for data space implementation in a unified way. Design Principles for Data Spaces position Paper wa published last April 2021. The paper is available on Position Paper Design Principles for Data Spaces OPEN DEI Task Force 1 brings together expert from four domain and various data space initiative to collaborate and define the design principle for data space implementation in a unified way. Second iteration Assessment of minimal viable data space and common building block for data space implementation. Identify best practice and publish a building block catalogue. KoM and activity coordination with expert Workshops organisation with OPEN DEI WG and project for building block assessment and minimum viable data space identification. Publication of a White Paper Harmonization Canvas for building block and best practice for Data Spaces and creation of Building block catalogue. CloseDATA-POWERED BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM BULDINGTask Force 2 TF2 is a Think Tank to come up with reference model that will consolidate a Position Paper to drive the data-powered Digital Transformation in the European Community. Data-Powered Business Ecosystem A pool of expert in the domain of Digiting European Industry (DEI) to discus on the guiding principle to guarantee Business Continuity and Multilateral DVC development based on trust and data sovereignty Task Force 2 objectives: Provide common guidance with best practice and code of conduct for stakeholder to develop and/or participate in data-driven digital business ecosystem and value chains, enhancing the use of emerging digital innovation tool for digital transformation. Support OPEN DEI project in maximizing the impact of their Digital Transformations in the four domains, facilitating the scaling-up, cross-domain replication and long-term sustainability of the business and data ecosystem built around the Digital Platforms. Drive collaboration and align with other EU initiative to bridge the current business interoperability gap, building on governance standard and industry agreement to facilitate access to DVC. Task Force 2 activities: First iteration Analysis of existing opportunity to scale-up and replicate data-powered business ecosystems: Industrial Agreements and Data Act normative analysis. Basic principle to foster collaboration between stakeholder to generate high value processes, by governance rule and industrial agreement Principles for the excellence in conduct aimed at both paving the way to Data Act fulfilment, and business and ecosystem organic growth Second iteration Definition of common guidance to cover business interoperability gap: Best practice and code of conduct for business continuity and multilateral DVC. Final workshop to disseminate the White Papers result KoM and coordination with stakeholder Interactive brainstorming session and follow-up/revision of the White Paper CloseDigital Platforms, Pilots and StandardsTask Force 3 To create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learned on how platform supporting Digital Transformation can be architected, crossing the boundary of specific applicative sectors. Large scale piloting A pool of expert in the domain of Digitising European Industry (DEI) discusses, on a voluntary basis, new opportunity and challenge and consolidate their finding in a Whitepaper. Task Force 3 objectives: Identification of major interoperability mechanism and architectural element (such a data models, ontologies, APIs, other mechanism to standardize data access to be used by project in the four sectors. Analysis of use case from piloting activity to derive architectural patterns, reference implementation and enabled functionality leading to increased value Set-up of a collaboration framework for cross-sector ICT standardization activity Task Force 3 activities: First iteration Analysis and Discussion on Reference Architectures, Interoperability and Standards. D7.5 : OPEN DEI Task Force #3 Preliminary Results: Reference Architectures, Interoperability Frameworks and Standardization in DEI Digital Platforms Second iteration: Definition of Impact measurement and benchmark Framework and Pilots evaluation. D7.6 : OPEN DEI Task Force #3 Final Results: Pilots Digital Transformation Pathways and Achievements CloseDigital Transformation & Business ImpactTask Force 4 Think Tank to create knowledge and tool to foster effective sharing and assessment of experience and lesson learnt on analysing the driver and barrier for adoption of platform supporting Digital Transformation and on assessing their business impact. Standardisation A pool of expert in the domain of Digitising European Industry (DEI) discusses, on a voluntary basis, new opportunity and challenge and consolidate their finding in a White Paper and a business assessment framework. Task Force 4 objectives: Provide a consolidate view of driver and barrier to adopt digital platform and recommendation in different domain and across domain Develop a Business Impact and Benchmarking Framework to support OPENDEI project in maximizing the socio-economic impact and to guide the OPENDEI project in developing and adopting their Exploitation Plans Boost collaboration with other EU initiative and project within the scope of business impact using existing synergy Task Force 4 activities: First iteration Market analysis of European Digital Platforms. Cross-domain and multi-domain SWOT analysis. KoM and market analysis interactive workshop SWOT co-design workshop to co-develop the SWOT model for digital platform Second iteration Impact measurement and benchmark Framework. Business impact method & benchmarking tool Interactive session to define KPIs and method for impact measurement benchmark Running the survey for KPIs measurement Final workshop to disseminate the result of measurement CloseNews 2022-06-21T12:51:14+02:00June 21st, 2022|| 2022-05-20T11:54:24+02:00May 20th, 2022|| 2022-05-17T12:25:04+02:00May 17th, 2022|| 2022-05-17T12:17:21+02:00May 17th, 2022|| 2022-05-17T11:35:22+02:00May 17th, 2022|| 2022-05-17T18:24:04+02:00May 12th, 2022|| 2Load More PostsEventsLatest Resources2023-02-20T17:17:39+01:00 2022-07-28T15:14:04+02:00 2022-06-29T17:06:34+02:00 2PartnersContact Us OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Action Line Policy Recommendations Position Paper Agri-food domain Action Line Policy Recommendations Position Paper Agri-food domain2023-02-16T13:55:40+01:00 This document reflects the opinion of OPEN DEI Ambassador for the Agri-food domain and the project involved in the Action Line Policy Recommendations in the context of SmartAgriHubs Final Event (Synergy-Days). This event allowed actor involved in funded project in the context of Agriculture to cluster together, discus together in term of policy recommendation and bring own voice to the European Commission and other policy makers, for underlining the knowledge gap in digital innovation Agri-food and the possible R&I pathway to cover such gap through public fund in the decade to come. OPEN DEI and the member arrived at a common agreement, identifying the main priority reported in the Position Paper. Share it! OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Public Reports Action Line Policy Recommendations Position Paper Agri-food domain2023-02-16T13:55:40+01:00 REFERENCE ARCHITECTURES and INTEROPERABILITY in DIGITAL PLATFORMS2022-10-25T13:50:22+02:00 Data Spaces for Energy, Home and Mobility2022-10-25T13:47:52+02:00 Open Source Software Catalogue2023-02-20T17:17:39+01:00 REPORT OF BUSINESS MODEL CO-DESIGN WORKSHOP2022-07-28T15:14:04+02:00 An analysis of driver and barrier for the uptake of digital platform in europe2022-06-29T17:06:34+02:00 State of Data Spaces by Finland Ministry of Transport and Communications October 20212022-03-08T20:59:22+01:00 OPEN DEI design principle position paper on Resources2022-03-09T00:01:56+01:00 OPENDEI Energy Booklet2021-12-09T10:57:59+01:00 D2.1 Reference Architecture for Cross-Domain Digital Transformation2020-11-18T17:57:45+01:00 Expert Workshop on a Common European Agricultural Data Space Workshop Report2020-11-18T16:23:01+01:00 D3.6 Pilot Dashboard Specifications2021-01-08T12:17:42+01:00 OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. REFERENCE ARCHITECTURES and INTEROPERABILITY in DIGITAL PLATFORMS REFERENCE ARCHITECTURES and INTEROPERABILITY in DIGITAL PLATFORMS2022-10-25T13:50:22+02:00 Project Description The document represents the result of a task force on reference architectures, interoperability framework and standardisation in DEI Digital Platforms. The task force is an activity of the project (H2020-872548- OPEN DEI Aligning Reference Architectures, Open Platforms and Large-Scale Pilots in Digitising European Industry1, a collaborative and support action which contributes to the objective to help make every industry in Europe benefit fully from digital innovations. Share it! OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Data Spaces for Energy, Home and Mobility Data Spaces for Energy, Home and Mobility2022-10-25T13:47:52+02:00 Project Description The European Commission ha promoted the deployment of the Digitalisation of Energy Action Plan (DoEAP), in order to develop an efficient, competitive market for a digital energy infrastructure and digital energy service that are both cyber-secure and sustainable. A central aspect of DoEAP is represented by the concept of Energy Data Spaces. Data exchange is crucial for emerging energy data service in the digital energy market and will help supplier and energy service provider to innovate and cope with an increasing share of renewables in a more decentralised energy system. This document address main issue of data exchange in the three interconnected key sectors: energy, building and mobility; the analysis focus on existing concept of data format and data standards, reflecting on how to facilitate data sharing across the different sector based on a common data framework. The foremost use case of European project and initiative in the specific sector or at cross-sector level are presented, depicting the current state of data exchange deployment and identifying the necessary action for the upcoming developments. Project Details Categories: Share it! OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Task Force 4 Digital Transformation Business Impact SWOT Interactive Workshop This event ha passed. Task Force 4 Digital Transformation Business Impact SWOT Interactive Workshop 14 December 2021- 14:00 - 15:30 The upcoming workshop of OPEN DEI project is aimed at co-designing domain-based SWOT analysis of European digital platforms. The co-design workshop take a input the output of the TF4 KoM workshop in which an analysis of driver and challenge and opportunity and threat of the digital platform from a commercial perspective ha been provided. Starting from the summary report of TF4 KoM, participant will work in four parallel group to co-develop a draft of SWOT for four domain of Energy, Manufacturing, Agrifood and Healthcare. The draft of SWOT for 4 domain will be pitched by each group moderator in the plenary session which come after. An open discussion session will be organized at the end of the meeting to discus the shared point and to define the next step to frame the output of the workshop in the form of a position paper. This workshop is a restricted event to member of the OPEN DEI task force. Add to calendar Share it! Event Navigation Details Date: 14 December 2021 Time: 14:00 - 15:30 Event Category: OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button. Privacy Privacy2020-01-14T09:42:17+01:00 PRIVACY POLICY GENERAL PROVISIONS We are committed to respecting your privacy and protecting your personal data, which is any information that is capable of identifying you a an individual person. This Privacy Policy (the Privacy Policy) describes how IDC Italia srl (IDC or we), a a project coordinator, handles, process and protects personal data of our subscribers, survey participant and visitor to the website (the user or you) within the project OPEN DEI. As part of theHorizon 2020 programme, the OPEN DEI project focus on Platforms and Pilots to support the implementation of next generation digital platform in four basic industrial domains: Manufacturing, Agri-food, Energy and Healthcare. OPEN DEI aim to detect gaps, encourage synergies, support regional and national cooperation, and enhance communication among the Innovation Actions implementing the EU Digital Transformation strategy. As used in this Privacy Policy, personal data mean information that identifies or can identify you. This Privacy Policy also informs you about your right regarding personal data processing and how and by what mean you can exercise them. We recommend that you carefully familiarize yourself with this Privacy Policy. DATA CONTROLLER and contact detail The controller of your personal data is IDC Italia srl, with it registered office at Viale Monza 14, 20127 Milan, Italy. As set in this Privacy Policy, your personal data may be shared with other IDC entity or affiliate from the IDC group (IDC Group). Updated contact detail and other information on all company of the IDC group can be found at . For request and/or complaint related to this Privacy Policy you can contact u via e-mail at . survey relating to the OPEN DEI project Completion of Surveys and Reports Within the OPEN DEI project, you can participate in survey targeted on digitalization on the European market and other initiative of the OPEN DEI project. If you choose to participate in a survey, you will provide u with personal data, in particular your contact detail (name, surname, email address, phone number, country, organization and job position) or potentially any personal data contained in your response submitted within the survey. Based on your response to the question relating to your organization, you will be given a report which will help you understand your organization standing in respect of the digitalization, innovation or other survey topics. The processing of personal data is necessary for the provision of our service to you, i.e. the preparation of the report tailored to your response and organization. The personal data that you provided to u will be processed for the period necessary to provide the service that you asked for when completing the survey. This period shall not exceed the period of 3 years. Updates and follow-up from IDC To ensure that the report you are given upon the completion of a survey is a relevant and tailored to your organization a much a possible, we may contact you with additional question and update relating to the survey and the OPEN DEI project. The purpose of the processing of your personal data is ensuring the highest quality the project OPEN DEI and survey report and effective communication between you and us. The ground for processing is our legitimate interest to deliver relevant result and the best service possible. Your personal data are processed for the duration of our legitimate interest but no longer than 3 year from the moment of completion of the survey. Updates and follow-up from other contributor to the OPEN DEI project If you grant u your consent when participating in a survey within the OPEN DEI project, we will provide your contact detail (name, surname, email address, phone number, country, organization and job position) to our partner that also contribute to the OPEN DEI project. This will enable u to provide you with even more relevant result of the survey and update relating to the OPEN DEI project. The processing of your personal data is based on your consent which can be withdrawn at any time reaching out to u via the email address provided in Section 2 above. The purpose of the processing of your personal data is the further development and improvement of the OPEN DEI project and ensuring the highest possible quality and relevance of the result that you get upon completing our surveys. The updated list of contributor to the OPEN DEI project who can gain access to your personal data if you grant u your consent is available at the official website of the OPEN DEI project at . marketing communication Contact form You can submit any questions, comment or request relating to the OPEN DEI project via our contact form which is available at . If you do so, we will process the personal data that you provide to us, mainly your name, email and any information that you may provide to u in the body of your message. We will process your personal data for the purpose of responding to you on the ground of our legitimate interest that is effective communication between u and you in regard to your question or request. We will process your personal data for the period of duration of our legitimate interest, depending whether there are any action or further communication following from your question or request. This period will not exceed 1 year from the moment of submission of the contact form. Commercial information about IDC products, service and event If, at the time of the completion of a survey, you grant u your consent, we may also send you commercial information about our products, service or event organized by u or other entity of the IDC group. In such case, the purpose of the processing is the market research, promotion of our products, service and events, particularly sending offer and personalized commercial information, organization and promotion of event and other marketing activity of the IDC and other entity of the IDC group. The personal data are processed based on your consent, that you can withdraw at any time. Each email with commercial information will provide a link which you can click on to unsubscribe. The retention period corresponds to the duration of the consent and shall not exceed the period of 3 year from the date when the consent wa granted. cooky We use cooky and other technology (such a site measuring software and user experience software) to enhance your online experience and learn about how you use our website and other service in order to improve the quality of the OPEN DEI project. We may combine data gained through cooky with other data you provide to us. Upon visiting our website, we will ask for your consent to use cookies. Below you will find the basic information about cooky and explanation on how exactly our website make use of them. What are cookies? Cookies are small text file sent to your device. Although cooky contain identifying information, they do not contain any information that identifies you personally, but rather allow u to recognize you upon return to our website. If you do not want to accept a cookie while visiting our website, you should be able to change the setting in your browser to disable this function (more information on how to do it below), but there might be section of the site that you will be unable to access if you do so. Why cooky are being used on this website? We utilize cooky to help u analyze how user use our services, and similar technology (e.g. device identifiers, ad tags) to recognize you and/or your device(s) on, off and across different device and our services, a well a to improve the service we are offering, to improve marketing, analytics, or website functionality. What type of cooky are placed? In the course of your browsing session the following type of cooky may be employed by our website: user interface customization cooky (i.e. cooky memorizing your preferences); authentication cooky (i.e. cooky allowing you to leave and return to our website without having to re-authenticate yourself); video player cooky (i.e. cooky storing data needed to play back video or audio content and storing your preferences); first party analytics cooky (i.e. cooky memorizing the page you visited and providing information about your interaction with those pages); and third party analytics cooky (i.e. cooky from third party supplier tracking our website statistic and vice versa). Apart from the aforementioned, are any other data being collected? Likewise, we will track your process across our website to verify that you are not a bot and to optimize our services: information regarding your browser and device; data collected through automated electronic interactions; application usage data; statistical information about your use of our website. If you send u an email (e.g. to request information or provide feedback on website content), the information you provide will only be used to help u to gather the information requested and to respond to your message. When you visit any of our websites, our server also log your global IP address, which is a number that is automatically assigned to the network your computer is part of. How long are the data collected by cooky retained? The processing of your personal data collected by cooky is based on your consent which can be withdrawn at any time via browser settings. If you accept the cooky on our website, we will collect and process your personal data for the period of 13 months. All persistent cooky are removed from your device after the expiration of this period and we will no longer process your personal data. How do I change my cookie settings? Most web browser allow some control of most cooky through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cooky have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit or. To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all website visit. Links to External Websites We may refer to, or establish relation with, other companies, organization and public body that will enable you to access their website directly from ours. Each of them will operate it own policy regarding the use of cooky and collection and use of information. If you have any concern regarding the manner in which your data will be used, we recommend referring to the privacy statement on relevant websites. IDC will strive to provide you with link to high quality, reputable website which we think will be of interest and relevance to you. However, please note that we are not responsible for the content of such website and cannot accept responsibility for any issue arising in connection with the third party use of your data, the website content or the service offered to you by these websites. Google Analytics The OPEN DEI website us Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (Google). Google Analytics us cooky (text file placed on your computer) to help the website operator analyze how user use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on server in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling report on website activity for website operator and providing other service relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third party where required to do so by law, or where such third party process the information on Googles behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purpose set out above. We do not make, and do not allow Google to make, any attempt to find out the identity of those visiting our website. Social medium When you visit, like, follow or otherwise engage with our social medium page or account (including, to the applicable extent, use of your social medium user account), we may be considered joint-controllers of your personal data with the provider of the particular social media/network. We do not use your personal data in any other way than described in this Privacy Policy. In order to find out more information about how the social media/network provider us your personal data and other information, please contact the respective provider. SHARING AND TRANSFER of PERSONAL DATA (RECIPIENTS OF PERSONAL DATA) Your personal data may be shared with: within the IDC Group (); other contributor to the OPEN DEI project based on your consent (); provider of IT, marketing or administrative services; external auditors, consultants, tax advisor and legal representative bound by confidentiality obligation for the protection of our legitimate interests; public prosecution bodies, court and administrative authority in accordance with our legal duties. We have entered into agreement on processing of personal data with our processor of personal data (with the exception of case where the conclusion of such agreement is not obligatory, for example, when transferring personal data to public authorities), which ensure at least the same level of protection thereof a this Privacy Policy. For instance when the personal data is transferred outside of the EU/EEA, we have ensured adequate safeguards, particularly we have entered into standard contractual clause a approved by the European Commission. datA SECURITY We have implemented and maintain appropriate technical and organizational measures, internal control and information security process in accordance with legal requirement and market standard corresponding to a possible threat to you a the data subject. We also take into consideration the state of technological development in order to protect your personal data from accidental loss, destruction, alterations, unauthorized disclosure or access. Such measure may, among other things, include taking reasonable step to ensure the liability of relevant employee who have access to your data, training of employees, regular backups, procedure for data renewal and management of incidents, software protection for device on which personal data are stored, etc. YOUR RIGHTS AS A DATA SUBJECT If you wish to exercise any of your right according to this Article or according to applicable legislation, please contact u using the contact information listed in Article 2 above. Also, if applicable, we will inform each recipient to whom your data have been provided according to Article 7 of this Privacy Policy of the measure taken or of the erasure of your personal data or of the restriction of processing in accordance with your request, if such a notification is possible and/or doe not involve disproportionate effort. We do not carry out automated decision-making or profiling. Access to and portability of your personal data You have the right to obtain confirmation a to what personal data we process or do not process with respect to you. Should you request it, we can send some of your personal data (namely the data that we process on the basis of the fulfilment of a contract and/or your consent) directly to a third party (to another data controller) whom you state in your request, provided that such request doe not affect the right and freedom of other persons, and provided that it is technically feasible You can access your personal data via aforementioned contact details. Withdrawal of consent Granted consent to the processing of your personal data can be withdrawn at any time without giving reason. For such purpose, please seek the unsubscribe button in email that we sent to you or contact u via the contact detail set out in Section 2 of this Privacy Policy. In such a case, we will erase your personal data within 30 day from the withdrawal of your consent. Please note that the withdrawal of your consent doe not affect the lawfulness of processing conducted on the basis of consent prior to it withdrawal Rectification of your personal data According to applicable legislation, you have the right to rectification of your personal data that we are processing if you find that they are inaccurate or incomplete. To request rectification of your personal data, please contact u via the aforementioned contact details. Erasure of your personal data You can request erasure of your personal data at any time. The scope within which we can comply with your request for erasure of personal data may be limited by our statutory obligation to store some personal data, particularly on the basis of accounting and tax regulations, etc. Further, we will also erase all of your personal data (and ensure thereof by the processor that we engage) if you withdraw your consent. Restriction of processing If you request u to restrict the processing of your personal data, for example when you contest the accuracy, lawfulness or our need to process your personal data, we will limit processing of your personal data to a necessary minimum (storage), and if applicable we will only process this data to establish, exercise or defend legal claim or where necessary in order to protect the right of other natural or legal person, or for other limited reason required by the applicable law.. In case the restriction is lifted, and we continue processing your personal data, you will be informed accordingly without undue delay. The request for restriction of processing can be made using the aforementioned contact details. Objections to processing You can object to data processing. If we do not demonstrate any compelling legitimate reason for the processing which would override your interest or right and freedoms, we will no longer process your personal data and will delete it without undue delay. Objections to processing can be raised using the aforementioned contact details. Complaint to a Data Protection Authority You have the right to lodge a complaint pertaining to processing of data conducted by u with the competent data protection authority, i.e. the Italian Data Protection Authority, 121 Piazza di Monte Citorio, Roma 00186, Italy; website: . UPDATES TO the PRIVACY POLICY We may modify or update the Privacy Policy from time to time. Any change to this Privacy Policy shall become effective with publication of the updated Privacy Policy at www.opendei.eu/privacy/. OpenDEI Recent Posts This project ha received funding from the European Horizon 2020 Programme for research, technological development and demonstration under grant agreement n 857065 NewsletterRegister for our newsletter Copyright 2019 |Credits | | We use cooky to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. You can revoke your consent any time using the Revoke consent button.