PHIRI build on the achievement of the BRIDGE Health and the Joint Action on Health Information (InfAct) projects. PHIRI allows for better coordinated European effort across national and European stakeholder to generate the best available evidence for research on health and well-being of population a impacted by COVID-19 to underpin decision making. In doing so, PHIRI lay the foundation for a federated research infrastructure on population health. PHIRI aim to facilitate and support open, interconnected, and data-driven research through the sharing of cross-country COVID-19 population health information and exchange of best practice related to identification of data sources, access,assessment and reuse of data on COVID-19 determinants, risk setting and outcome following ELSI and FAIR principle PHIRI ha launched it Health Information Portal (zie lijn 36) in May 2021, with data sources, population health studies, training material and courses, considering ethical and legal aspects. In line with the work programme objectives, PHIRI aim to obtain wider and more efficient access to and use of existing infrastructure in Europe, and to avoid duplication of effort within and between country with regard to COVID-19 response. To achieve these objectives, the construction of an integrated, efficient research and innovation environment is necessary. As such, PHIRI will work towards full synergy with different type of actor and initiative such a European research network in the domain of population health, relevant national population data owners/ curators, national population health coordination entities, international data collector and registry relevant for COVID-19 and future epidemic and European research infrastructures. This will come forth in the different work package set up in this project. Glossary Search Toggle navigation The PHIRI project Welcome to the official webpage of PHIRI,the Population Health Information Research Infrastructure. PHIRI is theroll-outoftheresearch infrastructure on population health information that aimsto facilitate and generate the best available evidence for research on health and well-being of population a impacted by COVID-19. PHIRIallows for better coordinated European effort across national and European stakeholder to generate the best COVID-19 population health knowledge. In doing so, PHIRI is laying the foundationto builda Research Infrastructure on Population Healthto be used to overcome future crisis andensurethe sustainability of the project. The intent is to support research across Europe through the identification, access, assessment and reuse of population health and non-health data to underpin public health policy decisions. This is achieved through a close collaboration with 41 partner across 30 country over a period of 36 month (November 2020 - November 2023). The project is divided in 9 ambitious work package with three transversal topics. PHIRI build on the achievement of theand theprojects. One Pager One Pager The PHIRI presentation video: Our latest outcome in video: Last news and upcoming events: Date: December 8, 2023 The 23rd issue of the PHIRI newsletter is out! Dive into PHIRI's latest updates, outcomes, and many other interesting content. Check it out ! Subscribe to our newsletter ! Find all the previous newsletter ! PHIRI will be co-organising or participating in many interesting session at the 2023 edition of the in Dublin. Discover them below! This will be the occasion to present many outcome from our work. The presentation from the PHIRI session are now available! Date: Mon, 10/09/2023 - 09:00 - Mon, 10/09/2023 - 10:00 PHIRI is organising a on the theme: "Harmonizing advance in Long COVID research: Uniting European actor for solutions", on October 9, 2023, remotely from 9:00 to 10:00 CET. Date: Fri, 09/22/2023 - 09:00 - Fri, 09/22/2023 - 12:30 We are pleased to invite you to the PHIRI 3Years Anniversary Conference, taking place on Friday 22ndof September between 9.00 - 12.45CEST in Townhall Europe (Sq. de Mees 5, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium). Date: May 22, 2023 At the occasion of first day of the European Public Health Week 2023, dedicated to the topic "Mental health for all", PHIRI is glad to organise a public session of it Rapid Exchange Forum. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation The PHIRI project Welcome to the official webpage of PHIRI,the Population Health Information Research Infrastructure. PHIRI is theroll-outoftheresearch infrastructure on population health information that aimsto facilitate and generate the best available evidence for research on health and well-being of population a impacted by COVID-19. PHIRIallows for better coordinated European effort across national and European stakeholder to generate the best COVID-19 population health knowledge. In doing so, PHIRI is laying the foundationto builda Research Infrastructure on Population Healthto be used to overcome future crisis andensurethe sustainability of the project. The intent is to support research across Europe through the identification, access, assessment and reuse of population health and non-health data to underpin public health policy decisions. This is achieved through a close collaboration with 41 partner across 30 country over a period of 36 month (November 2020 - November 2023). The project is divided in 9 ambitious work package with three transversal topics. PHIRI build on the achievement of theand theprojects. One Pager One Pager The PHIRI presentation video: Our latest outcome in video: Last news and upcoming events: Date: December 8, 2023 The 23rd issue of the PHIRI newsletter is out! Dive into PHIRI's latest updates, outcomes, and many other interesting content. Check it out ! Subscribe to our newsletter ! Find all the previous newsletter ! PHIRI will be co-organising or participating in many interesting session at the 2023 edition of the in Dublin. Discover them below! This will be the occasion to present many outcome from our work. The presentation from the PHIRI session are now available! Date: Mon, 10/09/2023 - 09:00 - Mon, 10/09/2023 - 10:00 PHIRI is organising a on the theme: "Harmonizing advance in Long COVID research: Uniting European actor for solutions", on October 9, 2023, remotely from 9:00 to 10:00 CET. Date: Fri, 09/22/2023 - 09:00 - Fri, 09/22/2023 - 12:30 We are pleased to invite you to the PHIRI 3Years Anniversary Conference, taking place on Friday 22ndof September between 9.00 - 12.45CEST in Townhall Europe (Sq. de Mees 5, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium). Date: May 22, 2023 At the occasion of first day of the European Public Health Week 2023, dedicated to the topic "Mental health for all", PHIRI is glad to organise a public session of it Rapid Exchange Forum. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation About u PHIRI (PopulationHealth InformationResearch Infrastruture) is the new Health Information project on COVID-19 financed by the European Commission.The project build on the and the . PHIRI wa launched inNovember 2020 and itincludes 41 partner in30 different countries. PHIRI for COVID-19, is a roll-out of theDistributed Infrastructure on Population Health (DIPoH). The project will support research across Europe through the identification, access, assessment and reuse of population health and non-health data to underpin (public health) policy decision on COVID-19 and future health crisis. The aim is to share data and expertise between country through a Health Information portal on population health in close interaction with key stakeholder in the health information landscape, in particular with ECDC, EUROSTAT, JRC, OECD, and WHO. PHIRI for COVID-19 ha the following objectives: To provide a Health Information portal for COVID-19 with FAIR catalogue on health and health care data for structured information exchange across European countries.The Portal will provide the service and tool necessary for researcher to link different data source and to use Pan-European data in a GDPR compliant, federated way. To provide structured exchange between country on COVID-19 best practice and expertise.WithinPHIRI, public health and clinical management information and methodology identified at national and international level will be shared, allowingresearchers and policy maker to have access to the most relevant and up to date evidence based research. To promote interoperability and tackle health information inequalities. PHIRI willsupport researcher and public health body to research query related to COVID-19 in FAIR and ELSI compliant manners. It will provide capacity building for management of COVID-19 relevant population health and healthcare data starting from the phase of designing data collection to analysis, reporting and preservation. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Background Health researchers, EU and associated countries, the European Commission and the European Parliament have all clearly stated that structural action to promote and strengthenhealth information is required. As many health information activity operate on a project basis, there is no guaranteed sustainability and integration of the work and achievement delivered by the projects. This became even clearer during the currentpandemic. COVID-19 ha put health system at a test by impacting all aspect of Europeancitizens' life in term of economic security, health systems, physical and mental health, well-being and premature mortality. Now more than ever, a structured European mechanism for COVID-19 exchange of population healthinformation between country is needed to facilitate multidisciplinary European research and underpin decision making. The Population Health Information Research Infrastructure PHIRIaims to generate the best available evidence for research on health and well-being of population a impacted by COVID-19. PHIRI will allow for better coordinated effort across national and European stakeholder to generate the best COVID-19 population health knowledge, by enhancing the identification of data sources, access, assessment and reuse of data on COVID-19 determinants, risk setting and outcomes. The project outline the activity and resource needed to ultimately improve national health information system and provide an integrated salutation at Europeanlevel, in link with the European Health Data Space and while ensuring FAIR (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reuse) and ELSI (Ethical, Legal, Social Issues)principles. Aims PHIRI aim to facilitate and support open, interconnected, and data-driven research through the sharing of cross-country COVID-19 population health information and exchange of best practice related to data collection, curation, processing, use and reuse of data following ELSI and FAIR principles. The objective of the project are: To provide a with FAIR catalogue on health and health care data for structured information exchange across European countries. To provide structured exchange between country on COVID-19 best practice and expertise. To promote interoperability and tackle health information inequalities. In line with the work programme objectives, PHIRI aim to obtain wider and more efficient access to and use of existing infrastructure in Europe, and to avoid duplication of effort within and between country with regard to COVID-19 response. To achieve these objectives, the construction of an integrated, efficient research and innovation environment is necessary. As such, PHIRI will work towards full synergy with different type of actor and initiative such a European research network in the domain of population health, relevant national population data owners/ curators, national population health coordination entities, international data collector and registry relevant for COVID-19 and future epidemic andEuropean research infrastructures. This will come forth in the different work package set upin this project. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation The Project Objectives PHIRI for COVID-19 ha the following objectives: To provide a Health Information portal for COVID-19 with FAIR catalogue on health and health care data for structured information exchange across European countries. It facilitates access to and use of COVID-19 relevant population health (health status and determinant of health) and care data provided by EU country public health body represented in the PHIRI applicant consortium. It provides the service and tool necessary for researcher to link different data source and to use Pan-European data in a GDPR compliant, federated way. To provide structured exchange between country on COVID-19 best practice and expertise. PHIRI share public health and clinical management information and methodology identified at national and international level. It allows researcher to provide relevant and evidence based information ready for use in research, and decision-making process by citizens, clinicians, public health practitioner and policy makers. To promote interoperability and tackle health information inequalities. PHIRI support researcher and public health body to research query related to COVID-19 in FAIR and ELSI compliant manners. It provides capacity building for management of COVID-19 relevant population health and healthcare data. Structure PHIRI is structured in9 Work Packages (WPs): WP 1 focus on the coordination and management of the day-to day scientific, administrative and financial aspect of the project. WP 2 focus on the establishment and implementation of effective communication channel within and outside PHIRI. WP 3 is responsible for the engagement of key stakeholder at national and international level. WP 4 aim to build the Health Information portal to facilitate access to health and health care data for COVID-19 between EU countries. WP 5 focus on supporting European country in understanding the impact of COVID-19 on population wellbeing and health, morbidity and mortality using a multidisciplinary approach. WP 6 aim to conduct research through use case of immediate relevance for public health policy and management of the COVID-19 pandemic, and to facilitate further research by making scalable, reproducible method available within PHIRI. WP 7 aim to create and validate a federated research infrastructure that overcomes data reuse & data sharing hindrance for rapid policy relevant research response to the evolving pandemic. WP 8 aim to establish a sustainable infrastructure to support rapid exchange of information and expertise between actor from competent authority and researcher in the joint effort to handle the COVID-19 pandemic. WP 9 aim to gain insight in possible future health impact of the COVID-19 outbreak, by developing scenario for MS and associated country national situation. Methodology PHIRIs overall methodology is based on the concept developed in the past five year by European country through BRIDGE Health and InfAct for a research infrastructure on population health. It build on 4 main services: A Health Information portal: The foundation and main service of PHIRI is the COVID-19 FAIR data catalogue on population health and health care data.It facilitates access to and use of European data for research on the health of population and on health care systems. The rollout and content development is carried out in WP4 Health Information portal for COVID-19 with the support of all the other WPs. The ICT support is provided in the WP2 Communication and portal development (WP2). WP7 Building a federated research infrastructure develops the tool to allow real time federated access. Additionally, rapid response to research question and exchange of (best) practice are facilitated through the portal by WP8 Rapid Exchange Forum. Investing in innovation in health information development for population health research: PHIRI support health researcher to use Pan-European data in a federated way developed by WP7 Building a federated research infrastructure for a rapid policy response, to link different data source and to make their research FAIR and ELSI compliant (WP 2, 4, 6, 7). Additionally, WP5 Research methodology to ass the impact of COVID-19, more in depth on a specific topic WP6 Research use case measuring the impact of COVID-19 on population health and WP9 Foresight: Modelling and Scenarios look at methodology used in EU country to monitor the wider impact of COVID-19. These will then feed into the Health Information portal (WP4). Providing capacity building to promote interoperability and tackle health information inequalities: PHIRI provides support for management of population health and healthcare COVID-19 data starting from the phase of designing data collection to analysis, reporting and preservation. Training of the health research community involves both the data producer and data user and strengthens skill to address the COVID-19 crisis from a research perspective. Capacity building is a transversal activity throughout the proposal (WP 3.3, 4.4, 5.3, 7.3, 8.5, 9.2). Assisting the health research community in developing method for knowledge translation research: PHIRI support researcher in methodology (WP5, 6) to provide relevant and evidence based data ready for use in decision-making process by citizens, clinicians, public health practitioners, policy makers. This is the return of investment to society improving the health of the European citizen and increasing the efficiency of our health care systems. Knowledge translation is supported through WP3 Outreach, engagement and sustainability and WP9 Foresight: Modelling and Scenarios. Additionally, key policy question are addressed in WP8. PHIRI Work Packagesinteraction Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Project oversight PHIRISteering Committee The Steering Committee (SC) is the key decision making bodyof the project. Its membership is made up of the leader and co-leaders of each of theproject work packages. The Committee meetsmultiple time during the life of the project, with ongoing electronic discussion. The member of PHIRI Steering Committee are: Austria, Gesundheit sterreich GmbH (GG) Belgium, Sciensano Finland,Terveyden ja hyvinvoinnin laitos(THL) Germany, Robert Koch-Institut(RKI) Malta, Ministry for Health - Government of Malta, (MFH) Portugal, Ministrio da Sade, Direo-Geral da Sade (DGS /FUML) Portugal,Universidade Nova de Lisboa (UNL) Romania, National Institute of Public Health, (INSP) Slovenia, National Institute of Public Health (NIJZ) Spain,Instituto Aragons de Ciencias de la Salud(IACS) Spain, Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) Netherlands,Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu (RIVM) United Kingdom, Swansea University (SU) The coordinating institution of PHIRI is Sciensano. PHIRIGeneral Assembly All partner meetfour time forthe General Assembly to review progress and plan activity for the coming year. All 41 partner are represented, including collaborative stakeholder and international organisations. The first General Assembly took place on the 19th November 2020. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Project team The full list of PHIRIs partner is presented: Austria - Gesundheit Osterreich Gmbh Belgium - Sciensano Bosnia And Herzegovina - Zavod za javno zdravstvo Federacije Bosne iHercegovine Bulgaria - Natsionalen centar po obshtestveno zdrave i analizi Croatia - Hrvatski Zavod Za Javno Zdravstvo Czech Republic - Ustav Zdravotnickych Informaci A Statistiky Ceske Republiky Estonia - Tervise Arengu Instituut Finland- Terveyden Ja Hyvinvoinnin Laitos France - Agence Nationale De Sante Publique France - Institut National De La Sante Et De La Recherche Medicale Germany - Robert Koch-Institut Greece - Ethnikos Organismos Parochis Ypiresion Ygias Greece - Panepistimio Thessalias/ University of Thessaly Greece - Panepistimio Kritis/ University of Crete Hungary -Orszgos Krhzi Figazgatsg Ireland - Department Of Health Ireland - The Health Research Board Ireland - Health Service Executive Italy- Istituto Superiore Di Sanita Italy - Universit politecnica delle Marche Latvia - Slimibu Profilakses Un Kontroles Centrs Lithuania - Lietuvos respublikos sveikatos apsaugos ministerija Lithuania - Higienos institutas Luxembourg - Ministere De La Sante Malta - Ministry for Health- Government of Malta Moldova (Republic Of) - Universitatea De Stat De Medicina Si Farmacie Nicolae Testemitanu Din Republica Moldova The Netherlands - Rijksinstituut Voor Volksgezondheid En Milieu Norway - Folkehelseinstituttet Norway - Helsedirektorate Poland -The Ministry Of Health Of The Republic Of Poland Portugal- Universidade de Lisboa, Faculdade de Medicina Portugal - Ministerio Da Saude - Republica Portuguesa Portugal - Universidade Nova De Lisboa Romania - Institutul National De Sanatate Publica Serbia -Institut Za Zastitu Zdravlja Srbijedr Milan Jovanovic Batut Slovakia - Narodne centrum zdravotnickych informacii Slovenia - Nacionalni institut za javno zdravje Spain - Instituto Aragones De Ciencias De La Salud Spain - Instituto De Salud Carlos III Sweden - Folkhalsomyndigheten United Kingdom - Swansea University Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation External Scientific Advisory Board (ESAB) The External Scientific Advisory Board (ESAB) and the PHIRI Steering Committeewill meet officially in month 18 (April 2022) and month 30 (April 2023) of the project, and will be provided with summary report on the project work progress a month in advance. The ESAB will provide advice on the quality of the deliverables, ethical issues, general philosophy and direction of the project, eventual corrective measure in the content of the work and, if necessary, on the dissemination and exploitation of the project results. The ESAB should be formed by a cross-domain group of independent scientific experts. The following three expert have agreed on being part of the PHIRI ESAB: Martin McKee (London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine) Louise Potvin (University of Montral) Howard Needham (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control) Christian Wimmer (European Commission - HERA) The member of ESAB were officially approved by the PHIRISteering Committee on the 25th of February 2021. The first meeting with the PHIRI Coordination Team and the member of ESAB took place on the 27th of January, 2022. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation InfAct, DIPoH, PHIRI, National Node, European Research Network, health information source, FAIR principle, metadata standard - How didall of them came together and became essential building block of the ? A team of 10 researcher from the Institute of Health Carlos III, Spain, brings a wide expertise on COVID-19 to 7 PHIRI Work Packages. From left to right on the picture: Inmaculada Len, Amparo Larrauri, Asuncin Daz, Joo Forjaz, Teresa Valero, Rebeca Ramis, Carmen Rodriguez-Blazquez, Csar Garriga. On 30 September 2021, the Austrian and Belgian National Public Health Institutes Gesundheit sterreich GmbH (GG) and Sciensano organised a session at the European Health Forum Gastein with the title Datademic, Data-decision-behaviour: A consolidated approach?. The topic wa chosen to highlight the process from data to decision to behaviour and is linked to the EU project PHIRI (Population Health Information Research Infrastructure). The discussion wa about the complex relationship between health data/ information, policy and behaviour, and how better data can ultimately lead to better decisions. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Research field Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 1: Coordination and Management Objectives The aim of this work package is to efficiently manage the project and to systematically monitor it activity in order to support the construction of the Population Health Information Research Infrastructure (PHIRI). This includes the day-to-day follow-up of the scientific, administrative and financial aspect of the project. WP1 will ensure that the contractual obligation are fulfilled and the expected result are delivered a planned. More specifically, the objective of WP1are: To provide operational, administrative and financial management of the project To support consortium networking among (research) institutions, research network and international organisation To coordinate internal communication among the different WPs and externalcommunication and collaboration between the consortium members, the different entity of the management structure and the European Commission (EC) scientific and administrative unit To facilitate and ensure convergence between WPs in the set up and roll out of PHIRIs activity To coordinate and streamline survey and or mapping exercise between WPs To coordinate the quality of result and deliverable including the adherence to the work plan, the project aim and contractual obligation and the management and supervision of the internal review process Task 1.1 Operational and Administrative Management This task ensures the successful implementation and the smooth running of the project. Regular Steering Committees (SCs) are organised with the Work Package (WP) leader and co-leaders (every 6 months, seven in total). Additionally, General Assemblies (GAs) will be organised with all Consortium Partners and other relevant actor in the health information field. This includes one kick-off GA and a final GA, four in total. In the SCs and GAs, coherence and interlinkage between the WPs and Consortium Partners is fostered and potential issue discussed. The coordination ensures that the work assigned to the different WP team is progressing according to schedule and within the allocated budget. Finally, the WP is responsible for the submission of the formal deliverable and the reporting and communication with relevant body such a the EC. Task 1.2 Financial management The financial status reflecting actual vs. planned effort and actual vs. planned expenditure is internally maintained within the project on a six-monthly basis and audited financial report will be submitted to the EC a required. Task 1.3 Quality of result Project result and formal deliverable undergo a process of internal quality control, including scientific review and verification, before their timely submission to the European Commission (EC). Additionally, an consisting oftwo cross-domain independent expert wa appointed to review the work performed by the different WPs. Theleader of thiswork package is: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 1 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 2 : Communication and Portal Development Objectives Work Package (WP) 2 aim to establish and implement effective communication channel within and outside PHIRI to ensurethat information is available to the Consortium Partners, population health and COVID-19 research networks, relevant stakeholder in European countries, international organisationsand the general public. The dissemination work performed within PHIRI focus on developing a strong and appealing visual identity to reach a large an audience a possible,targeting especially thescientific/health research community in Europe and policymakers in- and outside the health arenato increase awareness of PHIRI and disseminate theresults ofthe project. The main objective of this WP are: To define and update the communication strategy and dissemination plan To develop PHIRIs visual identity To promote PHIRIs activity and result To support the communication and organisation of PHIRIs event To operate effective audiovisual communication tool To supportthe set-up and maintenance of the To address the COVID-19 population health infodemic by identifying, simplifying and amplifying relevant scientific COVID-19 population health information available in European country which lay at the basis of the fight against disinformation Infodemic activity within PHIRI - PHIRI webinar at the European public Health Week 17th of May 2021 - "European experiences, lesson learned and good practice on infodemic management during the COVID-19 pandemic 9th and 16th of June 2021 - 30th of June 2021 -30th of September 2021 - European Public Health Conference, 12th November 2021 - European Public Health Conference, 12th November 2022 - - European Public Health Conference, 12th November 2022 - 27th January 2023 The leader of this workpackage is: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 2 Contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 3 : Outreach, Engagement and Sustainability Video file Name WP3 presentation - PHIRI Roadshow 20220407 Objectives This Work Package (WP) aim to reach and engage key research infrastructures, stakeholder at national and international level to ensure the sustainability ofthe projectsactions. More specifically, the objective of this WP are: To have a comprehensive viewof thedevelopments and state of play of health information system that monitor the wider effect of COVID-19 on population health at national level and international level To create a base for interdisciplinary population health research through exchange and support at national and international level To investigate route for economic sustainability To support integration of knowledge generated from PHIRI into policy Task 3.1 Mapping the state of play through (virtual) country visit Task 3.1 aim to map the health information system (HIS) that monitor the effect of COVID-19 on population health. This ass the COVID-19 health information flow in country through virtual country visits. The virtual country visit are carried out in selected European country that are part of the PHIRI consortium. After attending a series of workshops, assessor from several country will perform targeted interview with key national player that process COVID-19 population health information. The following domain are covered: resources, indicators, data sources, data management, national HISs data quality/information products, and dissemination and use. The assessment will be performed in Austria, Belgium, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway and Portugal by the end of 2022. Italy wa assessed by Belgium in January 2022. More information on these Task 3.2 Involving relevant COVID-19 national and international stakeholder Through Stakeholder Meetings, PHIRI brings together and involve the relevant COVID-19 national and international stakeholder including, but not limited to European research network in the domain of population health, relevant national population data owners/curators, national population health coordination entity and Europeanand international data collector and registry relevant for COVID-19 and future epidemics. The aim of these meetingsis to bring together the different international COVID-19 projects, initiative and organisations, to provide an overview of the activity carried out by these stakeholder and to delineate their relation to the activity of PHIRI. - 14.01.2021 - 18.02.2022 Task 3.3: Integrate knowledge into health policy Fostering translational research methodology is an important service of PHIRI. This task oversees and coordinate horizontally the policy activity in PHIRI to overcome siloed approach in the different WPs. At the same time, itfocuses on stimulating the integration of scientific evidence and research into the policy development process by delivering: describing the research output provided from each WPs including the result from the country visits, the outcome of PHIRI activity and the sustainability of the Research Infrastructure The leader and co-leader to this work packageare: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 3 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 4 : Health Information Portal for COVID-19 Video file Name WP4 presentation - PHIRI roadshow 20220408 Objectives The aim of this work package is to build theon health and health care data for COVID-19 to support structured information exchange between Europeancountries. The portal offer a FAIR catalogue with overview of COVID-19 population health data sources, study and capacity building exercise in the framework of PHIRI and beyond. The important tool to provide the necessary information is the network of National Nodes (NN), based on the Joint Action InfAct framework. The objective of this WP are: To create a FAIR catalogue, To promote and coordinate the sustainable network of NN, To prepare an overview of population health study and capacity building activity in European countries, and To prepare guideline and recommendation for legal and ethical issues. Please have a look at our Documentation and user guide for the Health Information Portal. Metadata description. (1.0), (2022) on Zenodo. Have a look to the Sustainability roadmap for the European Health Information Portal (2023) on Zenodo. Task 4.1: FAIR Catalogue Building on the work of InfAct and in close interaction with other important partner such a the ECDC and JRC a FAIR metadata catalogue is being created to describe COVID-19 population health data source in Europeancountries and at international level. In a first step, metatemplates were created organising and describing national data source available in country and Europe. In a second step, through a web search, national COVID-19 data portal weresearched to pre-fill the metadata template and in preparation for the country visit organised in Task 3.1. Currently, through theNN and country visits, Europeancountries are supported to complete the FAIR metadata catalogue and provide input on optimisation of the . Task 4.2: National node Coordination and Promotion The Joint Action InfAct ha prepared a framework to overcome a lack of coordination, communication and cooperation between stakeholder within Europe by encouraging them to establish NNs. A National Node brings together relevant national stakeholder in an organised way. Researchers from various institute and research group constitutecan thenshare expertise and updated knowledge on health information with each other. PHIRI continues this work in implementation ofNN framework by encouraging their set-up and further promotion. Learn more about National Nodes. Task 4.3: COVID-19 Population Health Studies This task is preparinga catalogue of scientific population health study on the impact of COVID-19 in Europe; clinical trial are not included. A catalogue containing metadata information such a type of study, geographical coverage-national or subnational, data sources, target population indicators, etc. will be shortly provided on the . Information available on COVID-19 Population Health Studies will be updated stimulating the Institutes to keep the information up to date and motivating researcher to fill in the catalogue (stressing the opportunity of sharing, comparing, setting up study already implemented in other countries). For the sustainability of the catalogue, validation of reported information on identified study will be regularly performed and checked with researcher stimulating updating of reported information and improving of planned studies. Task 4.4: COVID-19 Training Material and Courses This task is developing an overview of existing training material and course on COVID-19 population health related issues. The cataloguewill cover both European and non-European material and address different languages. Such information is already available onthe. However, the list will be expanded greately during the course of the project. Additionally, this task is also responsible for the various capacity building activity within the different PHIRI's WPs, ensuring their alignment and complementarity. This task leverage on the work done in and ha a strong connection with the future of DIPoH and the European Health Data Space, where it will constitute one of the building blocks. Task 4.5: Ethical and Legal Aspects This task is developing anoverview of existing practice and guideline on ethical and legal aspect of performing and exchanging health information on COVID-19. The task will provide recommendation how to transfer these learning into a specific common guidance for practical implementation affecting deployment, utilisation and governance of the . The leader and co-leader to this work package are: (THL)(NIJZ) Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 4 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 5 : Research Methodologies to Assess the Impact of COVID-19 Video file Name WP5 presentation - PHIRI roadshow 20220408 Objectives The aim of this work package is to support European country to understand the impact of COVID-19 on population well-being and health, morbidity and mortality using a multidisciplinary approach in order to be better prepared for current and future crises.The specific objective of the WP are: To map and synthesize the methodologies, determinant and risk setting on well-being mortality, morbidity and mortality across European country at subnational, national and European level To identify useful innovative promotion, prevention and care indicator and method to characterize the effect of COVID-19 To gather information on indicator andtheir variability, used by different country and other international organisation to measure the effect if COVID-19 and propose harmonization To synthesize research and data pathway for analyzing theimpact of COVID-19 Task 5.1: COVID-19 impact indicator and methodology This task aimsto provide a systematic literature review on the published article and report on COVID-19 impact up to the moment of the start of the project (November 2020) and to propose measure to alleviate or minimize the identified methodological problems. More specifically this task is: Mapping the different research methodology that country have been using to monitor the impact of COVID-19 Identifying methodological issue and indicator of direct and indirect impact of COVID-19and future crises, including economic and social impact on health and well-being, a well a collateral damage to the medical care of non-COVID-19 patient Synthesisingresearch and data pathway for analysing impact of COVID-19 Please find this task's one pager . Task 5.2: Exploring the determinant of the severity of long-term health outcome of SARS-COV2 infection This task aim at studying the respective effect of demographic variable (age, social position), life style, morbidity and frailty on the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the consequent severity of long-term health outcomes. This is being achievedby performing literature review on all the mentioneddeterminants. Task 5.3: Efficacy of new digital tool for COVID-19 contact tracing and assessment of it impact on health and social behavior This task aim at identifying digital tool for contact tracing of COVID-19 patient and summarizing the available evidence regarding the effectiveness and impact of these tool in the European context.Key consideration on the role of legislative and ethical aspect will also be examined to provide context-relevant recommendations, facilitating innovation uptake and diffusion. Task 5.4: Capacity building exercise on COVID-19 impact assessment This task is linked with WP9 and proposes to develop a European training event on methodological calculation of COVID-19 impact for better integration of research and policy. This capacity building exercisewill be mainly focused on: measuring premature mortality (years of life lost; YLL); morbidity due to COVID-19 (years lived with disability; YLD); attributable burden of comorbidities to COVID and prevention strategy and will be based on the identified indicator in Task 5.1. The leader and co-leaderof this work package are: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 5 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 6: Research Use Cases Measuring the Impact of COVID-19 on Population Health Video file Name WP6-7 presentation - PHIRI roadshow 20220408 Objectives The aim of this WP is to conduct research through use case of immediate relevance for public health policy and management of the COVID-19 pandemic, and to facilitate further research by making scalable, reproducible method available within PHIRI. Specific objective of this work package are to research: direct and indirect determinant of COVID-19 infection and outcome in vulnerable population group with reference to inequalities, COVID-19 related delayed care in breast cancer patients, the impact of COVID-19 on perinatal health and perinatal health inequalities, COVID-19 related change in population mental health and pilot activity carried out a Research Infrastructure through research use case by pooling data across European countries, and feeding output in the federated research infrastructure. Use Case A -Vulnerable populations, inequality and risk factor with direct or indirect impact on COVID-19 outcome Wide variation in COVID-19 infection and outcome exist across Europe and within countries. This workpackage aim to clarify the relationship between a wide variety of risk factor a exposure and outcome (infection, hospitalisation, death) and explore how this varies between setting and over time. Research will be carry out todemonstrate how the distribution of infection, outcome and risk factor using individual level health record, administrative and research data can be combined with ecological/group level contextual data across European population to produce actionable policy insights. Use Case B -Delayed care in cancer patient Healthcare system all across Europe have had to reorganize service and reallocate resource to provide attention to COVID-19 patients. Because of the rampant increase of case that required intensive attention orthe inherent risk of COVID-19 nosocomial infection, all country have been forced to cancel or postpone non-urgent care (e.g., elective surgery). This use case seek to elicit: Whether there ha been an increase in time to treatment in woman diagnosed with breast cancer in the month previous to the lockdown measures, a compared with woman diagnosed with breast cancer before that period and Whether this delay is a consequence of the intensity of the lockdown measures. Use Case C -Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on maternal and newborn health Pregnant woman and newborn are vulnerable during infectious disease pandemic because of specificity in their immune systems, maternal-fetal transmission, non-deferrable healthcare need and risk of adverse perinatal outcome due to stress and social deprivation. This use case: Investigates the pandemic direct (infection by SARS-CoV-2) and indirect effect (related to health service accessibility and confinement) on perinatal health using routine population birth data, Assesses whether effect differ by socioeconomic context, Uses result to ass how policy in participating country may have impacted health effect and social inequality and Improves preparedness for future epidemic by creating a template for utilization of routine population birth data and identifying needed improvement to current systems. Use Case D -COVID-19 related change in population mental health Individuals with mental health risk factor or mental disease are most commonly affected by COVID-19 confinement measure and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. This case study measure change in population mental health associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Use case supporting activity for implementation in the PHIRI infrastructure The aim of this final task is to support the specific activity regarding the use case to ensure the effective linkage across WPs related to PHIRI infrastructure and it is divided into three activities: Formalization of each use case data model and transport to the Common Data Model (CDM) for PHIRI FAIRification of use case results: coordination of the design of metadata model of use case result required for it publication in the FAIR data portal. Scalability, sustainability and rapid cycle analysis requirements. The leader and co-leader ofthis work package are: (RKI) Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 6 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 7: Building a Federated Research Infrastructure for a Rapid Policy Response Video file Name WP6-7 presentation - PHIRI roadshow 20220408 Objectives As an overarching goal, WP7 aim to create and validate a federated research infrastructure that overcomes data reuse & data sharing hindrance for rapid policy relevant research response to the evolving pandemic. This WP will develop on five main objectives: Showing the potential of the infrastructure for a rapid cycle analysis using a demonstration pilot case. Developing an advanced version of the federated research infrastructure, including: a) the development of a common data model for a COVID-19 rapid response; b) the design and deployment of the required data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) processes; and, c) the implementation of the distributed analytical solutions. Testing the solution implemented in 7.2 for a final implementation of the federated research infrastructure. Developingupgrading option from the lesson learntin other EU research infrastructures. Building an IT working group, for capacity building on how to get the federated infrastructure implemented and for the actual development of the federated infrastructure. This work package will provide the technological substrate to support the development of a federated research infrastructure that overcomes these hindrance whilst producing research output for a rapid policy response. As a result, the PHIRI infrastructure delivered will play a key role in the future European Health Data Space a well a in the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC). Task 7.1. Development of an overarching demonstration pilot Task 7.1 will demonstrate the capacity of the federated research infrastructure for the production of accurate and timely research output for a rapid policy response on COVID-19. The task entail the identification of the relevant data sources, the development of the data model and the analytical pipeline, and the FAIR reporting of the rapid cycle outputs. This taskwill generate solution for the rapid cycle analysis and reporting of testing policy and assessment of the impact of control measure in the evolution of infection and hospitalizations. In addition, the analytical pipeline will be adapted so a to be able to reuse those COVID-19 data collection collected by ECDC for surveillance purposes. Alongside these efforts, PHIRI will explore with ECDC if collection of epidemiological data from MS can be reinforced and improved using the capacity of the relevant national public health body participating in the PHIRI consortium. Task 7.2 Development of the federated infrastructure solution This task represents the actual development of the federated research infrastructure solutions, driven by the WP6 use cases. First, the CDM design will explore the use of the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) CDM, a widely adopted CDM for observational health data analytics. Secondly, the analytical pipeline that support the use-cases will compute the local solution for the research question on each data hub, moving these final aggregated result to the coordination hub, who will merge them for further comparative analysis between partners. Lastly, all the software developed will be open sourced and included in the WP4 PHIRI Portal. Task 7.3 Capacity building and Developers working group This task will focus on the capacity building within the participant hub personnel in two complementary ways: Supporting the specific IT implementation activities. Coordinating thedifferent ITactivities and the linkage of WP6 development activity through the settingup of a Developers working group consisting ofa community of data hub IT expert in charge of the FRI implementation. Task 7.4 Validation of the federated infrastructure solution T7.3 will focus on validating the software solution developed in T7.2, for the Common Data Model, the ETL process and analytical pipelines, including the implementation of patch to solve the detected issue detected. Task 7.5 Upgrading option for PHIRI research infrastructure This task will evaluate advanced distributed analysis technique to upgrade option for PHIRI research infrastructure. At the same time, this task will ass the eventual need for future increasing computational and storage capacity; thus, the need of linkage with high performance computing centre or, public or private clouds. Finally, this task will get insight from WP9 on effective modelling with a view to upgrade the PHIRI infrastructure according to policy requirements. The leader and co-leader of this work package are: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 7 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 8: Rapid Exchange Forum Video file Name WP8 presentation - PHIRI roadshow 20220408 Objectives WP 8 aim to establish a sustainable infrastructure to support rapid exchange between actor from competent authorities, their advisors, researcher and stakeholder in the joint effort to handle the COVID-19 pandemic. The emphasis is to collect and disseminate existing information and generate new (evidence-based) information a needed. The WP represents a central contact point for thepartners and it provides evidence-based policy support with the specific objectives: To provide rapid response to research and policy question that are raised in countries. To promptly disseminate internationally agreed guidelines, standards, report and initiatives. To exchange (best) practice among country regarding COVID-19. To provide a link with policy: the shifting landscape of evidence for policy. Task 8.1: Needs Assessment of COVID-19 topic to be covered in first instance This task - includesa need assessment for evidence-based policy support among health policy maker to identify the gap between research and policy. The need assessment is conducted via a survey that will be repeated on an irregular basis. Questions and response will be continuously evaluated and potentially adapted. The aim of this task is to identify COVID-19 current and future priority topics, best practice and lesson learned from evidence-based policy support during the COVID-19 pandemicto help researcher to better respond to health policy maker need in future pandemics. (D8.1) Task 8.2: Build up a one-stop shop for and between country seeking for urgent answer Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, health policy decision makers, their advisor and researcher are in urgent need to obtain evidence-based information on a variety of topic that serve a a basis for health policy decision making. This task organizes virtual, bi-weekly meetingsin which the participant discus specific pre-selected topic and ad-hoc question a well a they share information from the experience in their own countries. Task 8.3: Establish a reliable network of expert and expertise for short-term inquiry involving existing and planned Networks The specific objective of Task 8.3 is to establish a network of expert and expertise that can easily be approached for the purpose of information exchange and review of evidence-based policy support information, e.g. in an open forum. Further, the expert network complement existing expertise of project partners. Task 8.4: COVID-19 related international guidelines, initiatives, project and information source Task 8.4 started with a mapping exercise of source of population health information on COVID-19 to provide relevant population health guidelines, standards, and report with the aid of web scraping. Building on the mapping, this task will create a catalogue of existing international initiative and project on COVID-19 related diagnosis, treatments, intervention and measure (except policy measures) conducted in EU/EEA Countries. Task 8.5 Monitor COVID-19 Policy and Impact Measures The basis for this task is a mapping exercise of policy and impact measure related to the COVID-19 pandemic in EU Member States by web search and interviews. The result will feed into a catalogue on the Health Information Portal (HIP) that will be regularly maintained throughout the project duration. The lead and co-leads to this work package are: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation WP 9: Foresight: Modelling and Scenarios Video file Name WP9 presentation - PHIRI roadshow 20220408 Objectives A better understanding of possible future development is essential for policy maker to anticipate and possibly influence future trends. The current crisis make it clear that Public Health Foresight Studies (PHFS) can help to get a better understanding of possible (health) impact of the current COVID-19 outbreak, e.g., change in regular health care service delivery, in lifestyle, and in socio-economic developments. The overall aim of Work Package 9 (WP9) is to gain insight into possible future health impact of the COVID-19 outbreak, by developing scenarios. A scenario is not a prediction, rather a consistent, plausible, and coherent description of the future that reflects on perspective on past, present, and future developments, which can serve a a basis for action. More specifically, the objective of WP9 are: To get an overview of how European country have been using foresight and related methodology (e.g. modeling, forecasting, etc.) regarding COVID-19. To develop and provide foresight capacity (leveling the knowledge needed for performing foresight, reducing information inequalities, strengthening European data uniformity). To support evidence-based policy decisions, by exploring direct and indirect effect of the current pandemic on population health using foresight. To address these objectives, WP9 applies a multi-step approach a presented in the following 4 tasks: Task 9.1: Overview of current foresight activity in Europe and beyond The objective of this task is to make an inventory that provides an overview of current foresight activity and initiative in Europe and beyond. A literature review wa conducted. Additionally, European country were asked (through a foresight-activities questionnaire) to list current activity on foresight (and related methodologies), the current capacity and potential demand for applying foresight methodology. At the same time, health foresight expert and academic were identified. Task 9.2: Building capacity in foresight In this task, a Foresight Capacity Building training course wa organized covering different aspect of planning and conducting public health foresight studies. Interested professional from European country participated to learn and developing foresight skills. The aim of the course wa to provide European country with tool and opportunity for discussion by leveling all (interested) European country to a similar degree of knowledge. More information about the capacity building session can be found here: Please find here direct access to T Task 9.3: Collectively identifying key uncertainty and (national and pan-European) challenge using scenario analysis and advanced modelling In this task, scenario (in the context of a foresight study) for possible future pathway of direct and indirect health impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will be developed. The scenario development will follow a systematic process. Based on the capacity built in task 9.2, participant will receive support to plan and develop their own foresight study. During this exercise, trend and possible short and long term direct and indirect health impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will be explored and the most important societal challenge arising from these trend (as well a a set of indicators) will be identified. When possible, the analysis will be supported by integrated, advanced model-based simulations. Do you need some support to develop your own PHF study? Task 9.4: Developing guidance in identifying promising policy strategy (translating the information into knowledge) The scenario developed during Task 9.3 can provide possible image of the future and the associated societal challenges. To target these challenges, task 9.4 will identify promising policy strategies. Sequentially, the identified policy strategy will be discussed and further operationalized through policy dialogue (as a continuation of the scenario exercise). Attention will be paid to the main issue that should be addressed within the country strategic planning. A workshop meeting with national counterpart will be organized to identify gap and need regarding the preparedness of country in facing future population challenges. The workshop will be used a a platform to discus gap and proposal from WP9 outcomes. This task ha also led to the creation of four foresight-informed policy briefs: The leader and co-leader of this work package are: Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. WP 9 contact This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Glossary This glossary wa created by the consortium partner of the European project with the aim of establishing agreed definition of commonly used term to harmonise the work of the project. The aim is that the glossary can also be used by other project working in similar areas. The glossary wa created through a series of glossary working group calls, during which each definition wa discussed and agreed upon. This is a living document that will be updated regularly with the addition of new term and modifications, if needed, of the term and definition currently there. For the source of the specific definitions, please check the original HealthyCloud listed below. Few termsare specific to the PHIRI's activity and are not part of the HealthyCloud glossary. Source: Irene Kesisoglou, Shona Cosgrove, Pascal Derycke, Petronille Bogaert, Annika Jacobsen, Marco Roos, Anna Niemeyer, Alicia Martinez Garcia, Adrian Thorogood, Petr Holub, Irene Schluender, Salvador Capella-Gutierrez, Juan Gonzalez Garcia, Celia Alvarez Romero, Teresa D'Altri, Amy Curwin, Laura Portell Silva, & Lidia Lpez Cuesta. (2022). Glossary of commonly used term in the field of health data research - developed by the EU project HealthyCloud (1.0). Zenodo. GLOSSARY Aggregated data: Aggregated data is pooled data. Statistical data about several individual that have been combined to show general trend or value within the data.Aggregated data are not necessarily anonymised data. Anonymisation: The processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject. Removing personally identifiable information, so a to definitively not allow the identification of the data subjects.The method used to anonymise the data are context dependent. Cloud: Network of computing facility providing remote data storage and processing service through the internet. Cloud computing: Paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic pool of shareable physical or virtual resource with administration on-demand. Comparative population health research: Comparisons of health status, determinant and service use across countries, and/or over time. Consent: An individual agreement e.g. to participate in research, undergo a healthcare procedure, to personal data processing. Within the context of personal data, the GDPR defines consent as: Any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wish by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her. Data:Discrete observation of attribute or event that carry little meaning when considered alone Data can be defined a the recorded factual material that is commonly accepted in the scientific community a information that is required to support research findings. Refers to any digital representation of acts, fact or information and any compilation of such acts, fact or information, including in the form of sound, visual or audiovisual recording. There are four major categorical type of data for where the data come from: observational; experimental; simulated and derived. Data is information available for processing. Data access: The processing of data by a data user, which wa provided by a data holder, in accordance with specific technical, legal, or organisational requirements, without necessarily implying the transmission or downloading of such data. Data access right: the ability, right or permission to act on data in a defined location. Data altruism: Consent by data subject to process personal data pertaining to them, or permission of other data holder to allow the use of their non-personal data without seeking a reward, for purpose of general interest, such a scientific research purpose or improving public services. Data centric health research computational infrastructure: This infrastructure provides data a a service. This infrastructure includes services, such a data visualisation, hosting and processing of data. In particular, it canprocess health-related sensitive data. Technological infrastructure for data analysis, exploitation and/or processing. Data controller: Under Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, a well a under the GDPR, the data controller is the party that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purpose and mean of the processing of personal data. The actual processing may be delegated to another party, called the data processor. The controller is responsible for the lawfulness of the processing, for the protection of the data, and respecting the right of the data subject. The controller is also the entity that receives request from data subject to exercise their rights. Data curator:A person who is responsible for the quality and FAIRness of the health-related data, and to make sure the value of the data is discovered and accessible. This role also considers the possibility of enriching data when increasing it quality. Importantly, data curator might play a role regarding being processors, e.g. responsible for the data at hand. Data discoverability: The ability or a mechanism to browse and locate available data relevant to a specific user purpose (e.g., research project) in a non-targeted search. Data is more discoverable if the data collection ha metadata and the metadata is publicly accessible. Discoverability is related to findability from the FAIR principles. Data model: In a distributed research infrastructure, data model are a formal description of data source (entities, their attribute and their relationships) and metadata specific to a scientific study, that are the basis for semantic interoperability, thus allowing reliable comparative research. Data governance: Assembly of policy and processes, coordination aspects, data usage and accessibility principle and data management procedure for a certain health data infrastructure to ensure legal compliance, consistency and good data quality throughout the different stage of the data life cycle. Data processor: According to Article 3 (12) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, a processor shall mean "a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which process personal data on behalf of the controller." The essential element is therefore that the processor only act "on behalf of the controller" and thus only subject to his instructions.In some cases, the processor may choose not to process the data himself, but may have recourse to a subcontractor who process the data on his behalf. In practice, this will depend upon the processor agreement entered into with the controller. Data provider/holder: Any natural or legal person, which is an entity or a body in the health or care sector, or performing research in relation to these sectors, a well a European Union institutions, bodies, office and agency who ha the right or obligation, or theability to make available, including to register, provide, restrict access or exchange certain data. Data quality: The degree to which a set of inherent characteristic of data fulfills requirements.Notes: The requirement are defined by the purpose of the processing and hence data quality can be viewed in other word also a a fitness for purpose. The purpose can be any use of the data, including primary use or secondary use. For the purpose of data protection, data quality refers to a set of principle laid down in Article 5 of the GDPR and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, namely: Lawfulness, fairness and transparency Purpose limitation Data minimisation Accuracy Storage limitation Integrity and confidentiality Data reuse: The most simple form of data reuse is using the same data in the same way more than once (i.e. starting with an original dataset, and drawing different research inferences). The data can also be repurposed and used for another intent (i.e. using data from health insurance registry for health monitoring, or for research). Data sharing: Provision of data by a data controller to a data user for the purpose of joint or individual use of the shared data, based on condition of use, directly or through an intermediary. Data subject: As defined in the GDPR, a data subject is a person who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such a a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factor specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person. Data user:A natural or legal person/organisation who ha lawful access to certain personal or non-personal data and is authorised to use that data for commercial or noncommercial purposes. Dataset: Collection of data that is represented in a particular form. Datasets will vary depending upon the type of intended use, and how the collecting organization ha decided to organize their data upon collection. Dataset is essentially a heterogeneous term that could be made up of any type of collection for any type of data. Data curator: A person who is responsible for the quality and FAIRness of the health-related data, and to make sure the value of the data is discovered and accessible. This role also considers the possibility of enriching data when increasing it quality. Importantly, data curator might play a role regarding being processors, e.g. responsible for the data at hand. Dataset catalogue: A collection of datasets descriptions, which is arranged in a systematic manner and consists of a user-oriented public part, where information concerning individual dataset parameter is accessible by electronic mean through an online portal. Data steward: A person who ha an administrative role; they do not really use the data. They create guideline to make data FAIR and advice on how to do it. Stewards might have direct responsibility on the data at hand (processors) or not. Distributed research infrastructure: A decentralized and organised network of resources. FAIR Data principles: Principles to define the Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reuse of resource for human and computer at the source. For example, the principle emphasise machine-actionability (i.e., the capacity of computational system to find, access, interoperate, and reuse data with none or minimal human intervention) because human increasingly rely on computational support to deal with data a a result of the increase in volume, complexity, and creation speed of data. Findable: Data and supplementary material have sufficiently rich metadata and a unique and persistent identifier. Accessible: Metadata and data are understandable to human and machines. Data is deposited in a trusted repository Interoperable: Metadata use a formal, accessible, shared, and broadly applicable language for knowledge representation. Re-usable: Data and collection have a clear usage license and provide accurate information on provenance. Federated data analysis: Federated data analysis describes an analysis that is performed on multiple (often geographically) separated datasets. During this analysis, the data is not exchanged and can stay, for example, behind a given institution firewall. Only the interim result of a local analysis are exchanged between the data-hosting sites). The aggregated non-identifiable result from each local analysis are pooled and returned to the data user. Federated database: Afederated database systemis a type of(DBMS), which transparently map multiple autonomousinto a singlefederated database. The constituentare interconnected via aand may be geographically decentralized. Federated learning: This is a specific case of federated data analysis, for machine learning purposes. It is a learning technique that allows user to collectively reap the benefit of shared model trained from rich data collections. The learning task is conducted across multiple separate site coordinated centrally. Each site ha a local training dataset which is never shared . Instead, each site computes an update to the current global model maintained centrally, and only this updated model is communicated Health data: Personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal information about his or her health status.Health data collection: A technical infrastructure that hold datasets, make datasets available for use, and organises data in a logical manner. The datasets may come from different sources, hospital and/or research institute from the same country (national data repositories) or different country (international data repositories). Data collection may also cover appropriate, subject-specific location where researcher can submit their data. Data collection may have specific requirement concerning subject or research domain; data reuse and access; file format and data structure; and the type of metadata that can be used. Minimal inclusion criteria: A digital platform that receives and store data It receives data from a single source and/or multiple source Allows discovery of the stored health data It must have control over the data stored Other possible characteristic of a data collection: It could have a specific thematic, data type that it collect (e.g. a particular disease, a particular data type: genomic data, clinical data, EHRs) It could be part of one or more overarching data hub It could generate data Health data hub: Minimal inclusion criteria: A digital technical infrastructure with the core mission of enabling health data sharing It provides health data from different source It allows discovery of health datasets It ha a metadata discovery service It ha a data accessibility mechanism in accordance with existing regulation It ha an authorization functionality, provided by the same Data Hub or by an external institution. Health information: All organised and contextualised data on population health and health service activity and performance, individual or aggregated, that improves health promotion, prevention, care and policy-making. Health information systems: A health information system is the total of resources, stakeholders, activity and output enabling evidence-informed health policy-making. The health information system manages all type of health data, from EHRs to imaging data and population health data. HIS activity include: data collection, interpretation (analysis and synthesis), health reporting, and knowledge translation, i.e. stimulating and enhancing the uptake of health information into policy and practice. Health information system governance relates to the mechanism and process to coordinate and steer all element of a health information system. : An infodemic is an overabundance of information some accurate and some not that occurs during an epidemic. It spread between human in a similar manner to an epidemic, via digital and physical information systems. It make it hard for people to find trustworthy source and reliable guidance when they need it. Information: Data which is contextualised, i.e. reduced, summarized and adjusted for variation such a the age and sex of population so that comparison over time and place are possible. Infrastructure provider: The responsible organisation to support the physical management of health-related data following existing regulations. Parent definition for data hub, data collection and secure processing environment. Input Data: Data provided to or directly acquired by an AI system on the basis of which the system produce an output. Intelligence: the product of information being transformed through integration and processing with experience and perception based on social and political values. Interoperability: Following the European Interoperability Framework, interoperability refers to a) a full compliance with the legal and ethical provision in each constituent node; b) an organisation that support knowledge exchange and software transference across nodes; c) a compatible technological environment that support the communication between node and allows the deployment of the computational tasks; and d) the existence of common data model that enables semantic standardisation across data sources. In a distributed research infrastructure, interoperability is a key feature for it governance and achievements. Knowledge translation: The appropriate exchange, synthesis and ethically sound application of knowledge to intervention that strengthen the healthcare system and improve health. Machine learning: A subset of AI technique based on the use of statistical and mathematical modelling technique to define and analyse data. Such learned pattern are then applied to perform or guide certain task and make predictions. Metadata: A set of data that defines and describes a resource (e.g., data, dataset, sample...) so that it can be understood, discovered and reused. There are different level of metadata. Since metadata can be used to describe different aspect of data, we can group metadata property in term of quality, availability, provenance, processing, among others. Then there are metadata catalogue that can be developed to describe the available data collection in a repository or hub. Metadata is important to make data understandable, and can contribute to increase the findability, accessibility, interoperability and reusability of the data. Metadata can be collected or compiled in repository to improve the FAIRness level of the data collections. National Node: ANational Node (NN) is an organisational entity, often linked to a national institution or governmental unit that function a a national liaison and brings together relevant national stakeholder in the country in a systematic way. The relevant stakeholder may include, for example, the national statistical office, the national public health institutes, representative from ministry of health, research and/or science, and others. In addition, the NN may function a a discussion and advisory forum in matter of health data and information both for national or international matters. Examples include aspect of the governance of data, indicator and health reporting at the international level and health information stakeholder at national level. Non-personal data: All data other than personal data. Open data: Data that is freely available to everyone to use and republish a they wish, without restriction from copyright, patent or other mechanism of control. Open license is a license agreement which contains provision that allow other individual to reuse another creator's work, giving them four major freedoms. Without a special license, these us are normally prohibited by copyright law or commercial license. Most free license are worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, and perpetual (see copyright durations). Free license are often the basis of crowdsourcing and crowdfunding projects. Open science: The movement to make scientific research (including publications, data, physical samples, and software) and it dissemination accessible to all level of an inquiring society, amateur or professional. Open science is transparent and accessible knowledge that is shared and developed through collaborative networks. It encompasses practice such a publishing open research, campaigning for open access, encouraging scientist to practice open-notebook science, and generally making it easier to publish and communicate scientific knowledge. Personal data:According to Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725: "personal data mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (data subject); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such a a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factor specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person".Name and the social security number are two example of personal data which relate directly to a person. However, the definition extends further and also encompasses for instance e-mail address and the office phone number of an employee. Other example of personal data can be found in information on physical disabilities, in medical record and in an employee's evaluation. Personal data which is processed in relation to the work of the data subject remain personal/individual in the sense that they continue to be protected by the relevant data protection legislation, which strives to protect the privacy and integrity of natural persons. As a consequence, data protection legislation doe not address the situation of legal person (apart from the exceptional case where information on a legal person also relates to a physical person). Personal data breach: A breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed. Population Health Data/Health information: All organised and contextualised data on health and health service activity and performance, at individual or population level, that is fit-for-use and contributes to health promotion, prevention, care and policy-making. Primary use of data: The use of any data for the purpose for which it wa originally collected. Processing (personal and non-personal): Any operation or set of operation which is performed on data or on datasets, whether or not by automated means, such a collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosureby transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction. Profiling: Any form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of personal data to evaluate certain personal aspect relating to a natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspect concerning that natural person's performance at work, economic situation, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movements. Pseudonymisation: The processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organisational measure to ensure that the personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person. Public health monitoring and reporting: The activity necessary to obtain health data and information and bring this information into health policy and practice. Research Network: A Research Network (RN) is an active networkof national and/or regional expert from several country that perform comparative research in a specific health area (information domain). Restriction of processing (personal and non-personal data): As defined by the GDPR, method by which to restrict the processing of data could include, inter alia, temporarily moving the selected data to another processing system, making the selected personal data unavailable to users, or temporarily removing published data from a website. In automated filing systems, the restriction of processing should in principle be ensured by technical mean in such a manner that the personal data are not subject to further processing operation and cannot be changed. The fact that the processing of data is restricted should be clearly indicated in the system. Secondary use of data/data re-use:Secondary use refers to using data for a different purpose than the one it wa originally collected for (i.e. than the primary use). According to the European Data Governance Act 2020 re-use mean the use by natural or legal person of data held by public sector bodies, for commercial or noncommercial purpose other than the initial purpose within the public task for which the data were produced, except for the exchange of data between public sector body purely in pursuit of their public tasks. Clinical definition: Secondary use of health data applies personal health information (PHI) for us outside of direct health care delivery. Secure processing environment: The physical or virtual environment and organisational mean to provide the opportunity to re-use data in a manner that allows for the operator of the secure processing environment to determine and supervise all data processing actions, including to display, storage, download, export of the data and calculation of derivative data through computational algorithms. Sensitive data: Information that is regulated by law due to possible risk for plants, animals, individual and/or community and for public and private organisations. Sensitive personal data include information related to racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership and data concerning the health or sex life of an individual. These data that could be identifiable and potentially cause harm through their disclosure. Synthetic data:The concept of synthetic data generation is to take an original data source (dataset) and create new, artificial data, with similar statistical property from it. Keeping the statistical property mean that anyone analysing the synthetic data, a data analyst for example, should be able to draw the same statistical conclusion from the analysis of a given dataset of synthetic data a he/she would if given the real (original) data. The use of synthetic data is growing in many fields: from training of artificial intelligence model within the health sector to computer vision, image recognition and robotics fields. Synthetic data should not be confused with "mockup data", which, although close, is not synonymous. Mockup data is primarily used for initial testing purposes, e.g. in design phase to prototype applications. It doesn't necessarily maintain the statistical property of real data. Learn more about the difference between synthethic v mockup data . Testing Data: Data used for providing an independent evaluation of the trained and validated AI system in order to confirm the expected performance of that system before it placing on the market or putting into service. Training Data: Data used for training machine learning algorithm (e.g., an artificial intelligence (AI) system) through fitting it learnable parameters. Validation Data: Data used for providing an evaluation of the trained AI system and for tuning it non-learnable parameter and it learning process. Use case: A software and system engineering term that describes how a userinteracts within a system to accomplish a particular goal. Ause caseacts a a software modeling technique that defines the feature to be implemented and the resolution of any error that may be encountered. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Projects and initiative Ten EU-funded H2020 projects, with a combined funding of 72 million, have united to form the PREparedness and resPonse for emergency situAtions in euRopE (PREPARE) cluster. Each of the ten project is tackling challenge specifically looking at the preparedness and response phase of crisis management and working together we aim to achieve stronger result and greater impact for our cause. Together , , , , , , , , and will explore synergies, research opportunity and deliver joint activity to maximise impact. Through mutual support, the cluster will strengthen our response to the ongoing crisis and our aim to be better prepared for future health crises. BeYond-COVID (BY-COVID) aim to provide comprehensive open data on SARS-CoV-2 and other infectious disease across scientific, medical, public health and policy domains. It will strongly emphasise mobilising raw viral sequences, helping to identify and monitor the spread of SARS-CoV-2 variants. The project will further accelerate access to SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 and linking patient and research data. To ensure interoperability of national and global efforts, BY-COVID will enable federated data analysis compliant with data protection regulations, harmonise and manage metadata and sample identifiers, and facilitate long-term cataloguing. (Unravelling Data for Rapid Evidence-Based Response to COVID-19) is a functional network of 29 partner capable of harvesting real-world data derived from the response and provision of care to COVID-19 patient by health system across Europe and internationally. These real world data comprise mostly information from electronic medical record from front line hospitals, a well a national surveillance data, registries, and integrate information from over 300,000 COVID-19 patient initially, and anticipated to increase a database are being updated on a continuous basis. Studies into patient characteristics, determinant of disease prognosis, and safety and effectiveness of treatment and potential strategy against COVID-19 in real world settings, are envisioned to complement finding from efficacy/safety clinical trial where vulnerable populations, those most at risk of severe COVID-19, are often excluded. unCoVers ultimate goal is to bring together European and international expertise to monitor, identify, and facilitate the access and utilization of this type of data, identifying knowledge gaps, and underrepresented populations, and proactively seek synergy with complementary existing and planned clinical databases. EGI-ACE is a 30-month project coordinated by the EGI Foundation with a mission to empower researcher from all discipline to collaborate in data- and compute-intensive research through free-at-point-of-use services. The consortium of the project build on the expertise and asset of the EGI federation members, key research communities, data provider and collaborating initiatives. EGI ACE will work closely with PHIRI to provide technical service that will help PHIRI to successfully continue in the implementation of the population health information research infrastructure the project is developing. Do you want to know more about the EGI-ACE project? Watch this short ! , the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space, help EU member state and the European Commission to develop and promote concept for the secondary use of health data to benefit public health and health research and innovation in Europe. The joint action is being carried out by 25 European country and co-ordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund, Sitra. The project started in February 2021 and it is based on the European Commissions Health Programme 2020. TEHDAS goal is that in the future European citizens, community and company will benefit from secure and seamless access to health data regardless of where it is stored. The objective of is to generate a number of guidelines, recommendation and specification that will enable distributed health research across Europe in the form of a. This roadmap together with the feedback gathered from a broad range of stakeholder will be the basis to produce the final HealthyCloud Strategic Agenda for the European Health Research and Innovation Cloud (HRIC). To facilitate the generation of the final Strategic Agenda, HealthyCloud is joining a broad number of stakeholder across the EU member states, the European Commission, and relevant regional, national and international initiative in the form of a Stakeholder Forum.invites representative from healthcare providers, academia, industry, patient and citizen organizations, professional organization and policy and decision-makers. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation PREPARE Cluster PREparedness and resPonse for emergency situAtions in euRopE In recent years, there have been increasing instance of cross-border crises, including climate change, terrorism, international trade dispute and global health threats, like the COVID-19 pandemic. These emergency situation require large-scale planning for preparedness and response in order for country to be able to cope with unforeseen challenges. The European Commission ha recently funded many project to work on different aspect of crisis management, many with a focus on managing pandemics. While each project ha distinct aim and challenges, they all work towards a common goal. It is for this reason that thirteen EU-funded H2020 projects, with a combined funding of 79million, have united to form the PREparedness and resPonse for emergency situAtions in euRopE (PREPARE) cluster. Each of the thirteenprojects is tackling challenge specifically looking at the preparedness and response phase of crisis management and working together we aim to achieve stronger result and greater impact for our cause. Together , , , , , , ,,, , , and will explore synergies, research opportunity and deliver joint activity to maximise impact. Through mutual support, the cluster will strengthen our response to the ongoing crisis and our aim to be better prepared for future health crises. PREparedness and resPonse for emergency situAtions in euRopE To protect European citizen and address the need of the healthcare sector on short notice, the CO-VERSATILE project aim to prepare Europe for managing pandemic by elevating the adaptability and resilience of the manufacturing sector. The goal is to offer manufacturing and logistics firm readily available and customisable solution - accessible via a cloud-based marketplace Digital Technopole - that enable them to boost the production of vital medical equipment. COVID-X bridge the gap between the European digital sector and healthcare providers. The program will unlock the full capacity of Artificial Intelligence and Data Technology solution to overcome COVID-19 Challenges, fast-tracking project to market and save lives. COVINFORM analysis COVID-19 response on the level of government, public health, community, and information and communication with a focus on the impact on vulnerable individual and groups. Key outcome of the project are an online portal and visual toolkit for stakeholder in government, public health, and civil society integrating data streams, index and indicators, maps, models, primary research and case study findings, empirically grounded policy guidance, and creative assessment tools. The Eur3ka - EUropean Vital Medical Supplies and Equipment Resilient and Reliable Repurposing Manufacturing a a Service NetworK for fast PAndemic Reaction - will be repurposing the manufacturing for vital medical supply and equipment. Enhancing personal skills, new industrial value chains, service innovation, technological innovation, innovation methodologies, process innovation to fight Pandemics like COVID-19. LINKS Strengthening link between technology and society for European disaster resilience is a comprehensive study on disaster governance in Europe. The overall aim of the LINKS project is to strengthen link between technology and society for improved European disaster resilience, by producing sustainable advanced learning on the use of social medium and crowdsourcing (SMCS) in disasters. NO-FEAR (Network Of practitioner For Emergency medicAl system and cRitical care) is a 5-year Coordination and Support Action project that aim to bring together a pan-European and beyond network of emergency medical care practitioners, suppliers, decision and policy maker to collaborate and exchange knowledge, good practices, and lesson learned. PANDEM-2 is a H2020 EU-funded project that aim to develop new solution for efficient, EU-wide pandemic management. The goal of PANDEM-2 is to prepare Europe for future pandemic through innovation in training and to build capacity between EU member state responding to pandemic on a cross-border basis. The project "Pathogen Contamination Emergency Response Technologies" () aim to strengthen the coordination capability of first responder in the event that they have to work in place where the risk of contamination via water is high. Within this scope, the project will produce pathogen contamination emergency response technologies, tool and guideline to be validated by first responders, helping them to detect pathogen quickly and to better control emergencies. PERISCOPE is a large-scale research project funded under the Horizon 2020 programme, that brings together 32 European institutions, coordinated by the University of Pavia. The goal of PERISCOPE is to shed light into the broad socio-economic and behavioral impact of COVID-19. A multidisciplinary consortium brings together expert in all aspect of the current outbreak: clinic and epidemiologic; socio-economic and political; statistical and technological. Population Health Information Research Infrastructure (PHIRI) for COVID-19 facilitates research and support policy making across Europe through the implementation of a research infrastructure to generate the best available evidence for research on health and well-being of population a impacted by COVID-19. The aim of the Project is to integrate Risk Perception and Action to enhance Civil protection-Citizen interaction. The STAMINA project brings together 27 organisation working towards developing tool for predictive modelling of pandemic outbreaks, along with early warning functionality and decision support.The toolset will be accompanied by a set of guideline on effective implementation of risk communication principle and best practice in cross-organisational preparedness and response plans. STRATEGY brings together standardisation bodies, policy makers, technology supplier and first responder from several EU country who will collaborate over three year to improve the interoperability of crisis management solution across the EU. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation European Burden of Disease Network Aims and objective What are the most relevant disease in a country? Which risk factor are the strongest contributor to disease and death? How is the impact of different disease evolving over time, and how doe it compare between country and within subnational units? As the need for prioritising the use of available resource constantly increases, a timely, sound and comprehensive answer to these fundamental question is more than ever needed to inform public health decision making. Driven by the impact of the Global Burden of Disease study, several researcher and national and international health institute have adopted the burden of disease approach to address these questions. The complexity of the burden of disease approach however, resulted in major disparity in research capacity across Europe. Furthermore, the current burden of disease landscape remains scattered, and researcher struggle to translate their finding to decision makers. The will address these challenge by acting a atechnical platform for integrating and strengthening capacity in burden of disease assessment across Europe and beyond. To achieve this mission, the Action is cooperating with theof the WHO Regional Office for Europe. COVID-19 Burden of Disease Training School - in collaboration with PHIRI The COVID-19 Burden of Disease Training School provides an introduction to burden of disease assessment, using COVID-19 a a case study. It provides public health professionals, and researcher from related fields, with practical knowledge about summary measure of population health, the historical background of the Global Burden of Disease study and it outputs. Furthermore, the Training Schoolintroduces the concept and rationale of the main metric (YLLs, YLDs and DALYs), and underline their application and importance or priority setting in public health policy and decision-making processes. The Training School will be organized jointly by theand the. Structure The Training School will be organized a three module taking place from 30 March to 1 April 2022 in Ljubljana, if the COVID-19 measure will allow it . Each module will include theoretical and practical sessions, exercise and follow-up discussions. Each module is planned to take place from 9h30 to 15h00 CET, including a lunch break. Module 1 (Introduction to DALYs and YLLs)introduces summary measure of public health and the basic concept of burden of disease, DALYs and YLLs Module 2 (Introduction to YLDs)focuses on disability weight and the other main YLD inputs: input data, severity distributions, and comorbidity adjustment Module 3 (DALYs: theory to practice)addresses practical issue related to data, assumptions, and uncertainties, and put a focus on knowledge translation Registrations Registrations closed on the 31st of January 2022 at midnight. Eligibility and prerequisite The Training School is open to all burden-eu member and partner institution of the PHIRI project. The number of participant will be limited to a maximum of 30. If the number of application would exceed the maximum number of available seats, candidate will be selected a) to prioritise motivated student and early career investigators, b) to ensure gender and geographical balance (and favouring representative from Inclusiveness Target Countries), and c) to prioritise highly motivated candidates. Teaching will be in English. Exercises will require a basic proficiency in MS Excel. Program Trainers Brecht Devleesschauwer, Sciensano, Belgium Dr. Brecht Devleesschauwer is a senior epidemiologist at Sciensano (the Belgian institute for health) and visiting professor in Risk Analysis at Ghent University. He conduct policy-driven public health research in the domain of composite measure of population health and health inequalities. As a member of the World Health Organization Foodborne Disease Burden Epidemiology Reference Group (WHO/FERG), he contributed to the estimation of the global burden of foodborne disease. Currently, he is coordinating the Belgian National Burden of Disease Study, and chairing the European Burden of Disease Network (COST Action CA18218). Brecht hold PhD degree in Public Health and Veterinary Sciences, and MSc degree in Biostatistics and Veterinary Medicine. Juanita Haagsma, Erasmus MC, the Netherlands Dr. Juanita Haagsma, PhD in health sciences, work a Assistant Professor at the Department of Public Health at the Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Her research focus mainly on burden of disease estimate of injury and quantifying long-term consequence of injury in particular. For several years, she worked a Assistant Professor at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington, where she wa a member of the injury team of the Global Burden of Disease study. She wa responsible for the development and implementation of method to calculate the global burden of injury. In addition, she ha conducted several study on disability weights, including a large disability weight study that collected response from more than 30,000 people from four European countries. Sara Monteiro Pires, National Food Institute, Denmark Dr. Sara Pires is a senior scientist at the National Food Institute, Technical University of Denmark. Her main area of research are the burden and control of foodborne diseases. She ha developed and applied method to ass the burden of food-associated disease at national and international level, and to provide evidence to guide public health policy for disease prevention. She is the chair of the Working Group on Infectious Diseases of the European Burden of Disease Network Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Related project and initiative BeYond-COVID (BY-COVID) aim to provide comprehensive open data on SARS-CoV-2 and other infectious disease across scientific, medical, public health and policy domains. It will strongly emphasise mobilising raw viral sequences, helping to identify and monitor the spread of SARS-CoV-2 variants. The project will further accelerate access to SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 and linking patient and research data. To ensure interoperability of national and global efforts, BY-COVID will enable federated data analysis compliant with data protection regulations, harmonise and manage metadata and sample identifiers, and facilitate long-term cataloguing. (Unravelling Data for Rapid Evidence-Based Response to COVID-19) is a functional network of 29 partner capable of harvesting real-world data derived from the response and provision of care to COVID-19 patient by health system across Europe and internationally. These real world data comprise mostly information from electronic medical record from front line hospitals, a well a national surveillance data, registries, and integrate information from over 300,000 COVID-19 patient initially, and anticipated to increase a database are being updated on a continuous basis. Studies into patient characteristics, determinant of disease prognosis, and safety and effectiveness of treatment and potential strategy against COVID-19 in real world settings, are envisioned to complement finding from efficacy/safety clinical trial where vulnerable populations, those most at risk of severe COVID-19, are often excluded. unCoVers ultimate goal is to bring together European and international expertise to monitor, identify, and facilitate the access and utilization of this type of data, identifying knowledge gaps, and underrepresented populations, and proactively seek synergy with complementary existing and planned clinical databases. EGI-ACE is a 30-month project coordinated by the EGI Foundation with a mission to empower researcher from all discipline to collaborate in data- and compute-intensive research through free-at-point-of-use services. The consortium of the project build on the expertise and asset of the EGI federation members, key research communities, data provider and collaborating initiatives. EGI ACE will work closely with PHIRI to provide technical service that will help PHIRI to successfully continue in the implementation of the population health information research infrastructure the project is developing. Do you want to know more about the EGI-ACE project? Watch this short ! , the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space, help EU member state and the European Commission to develop and promote concept for the secondary use of health data to benefit public health and health research and innovation in Europe. The joint action is being carried out by 25 European country and co-ordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund, Sitra. The project started in February 2021 and it is based on the European Commissions Health Programme 2020. TEHDAS goal is that in the future European citizens, community and company will benefit from secure and seamless access to health data regardless of where it is stored. The objective of is to generate a number of guidelines, recommendation and specification that will enable distributed health research across Europe in the form of a. This roadmap together with the feedback gathered from a broad range of stakeholder will be the basis to produce the final HealthyCloud Strategic Agenda for the European Health Research and Innovation Cloud (HRIC). To facilitate the generation of the final Strategic Agenda, HealthyCloud is joining a broad number of stakeholder across the EU member states, the European Commission, and relevant regional, national and international initiative in the form of a Stakeholder Forum.invites representative from healthcare providers, academia, industry, patient and citizen organizations, professional organization and policy and decision-makers. For intelligence gathering and threat assessment, need support from the Member States and associated countries, and a comprehensive state-of-the-art IT system generating actionable insight for decision-making is crucial. The upcoming HERA IT platform for intelligence gathering will only be operational if Member States have strong national IT system that are interoperable with HERAs IT system and other relevant systems. EU-HIP () support participating country to enhance and improve national IT system in an efficient and coordinated manner, with the objective to obtain the needed interoperability with HERAs IT platform. This will entail developing new IT system and strengthening a well a aligning existing IT system for the assessment of health threat and for intelligence gathering in the area of medical countermeasure at national level. Moreover, there is focus on promoting data comparability, and streamlining reporting to different systems. EU-HIP will facilitate integration of national IT system with the HERA IT platform currently under development, and complement existing system for early warning and response, epidemic intelligence, public health surveillance and medical countermeasures. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Resources Find all the newsletter published by the PHIRI project and get to know news and update about the project, past and upcoming events, interesting papers, and much more! Find, for each of the work package, a one-pager document that provides an overview of each activity carried out by PHIRI and explains in simple word the aim and the methodology of the work done by the partners. Find some deliverables, milestone and other interesting document that relates the progress of the project and show the work that ha already been achieved. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Capacity Building Explore all the PHIRI Capacity building activitieson the ! Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Newsletters Interested to receive our next coming newsletters? Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation One-Pagers General one-pager on PHIRI, listing all project achievement until March 2022. Learn more about PHIRI's activity regarding Infodemic management. We believe that exchanging expertise, methods, identify synergy with other organizations, project and initiative is essential to build on what exists, learn from each other and avoid duplication. Discover how PHIRI reach and involve key stakeholders. Did you know that PHIRI will carry out virtual country visit in order to map the health information system that monitor the effect of COVID-19 on population health and to ass the COVID-19 health information flow in European countries? We are very proud of our European Health Information Portal and to provide researcher with population health information data sources; publications; research networks; projects, initiatives, training & much more! Learn more in this one-pager. In many European States, health information activity are scattered over several institutes. We aim at overcoming these barrier by setting up National Nodes, in order to increase communication among key player in a systematic way. Learn how, building on on the success of it predecessor InfAct in this domain, PHIRI provides numerous capacity building activity in the form of trainings, courses, webinars and workshop to strengthen the next generation of public health information professional in Europe. In order to ass the impact of COVID-19 on population health, one of PHIRI's work package is dedicated to the identification of research approaches, new methodologies, indicator and data uses, especially by conducting literature reviews. Several practical consideration for developing and choosing health indicator were taken in Europe during the COVID-19 crisis. Therefore, it is vital to understand the methodological issue to ass how comparable, solid and consistent are the existing health indicator to measure the direct impact of COVID-19 in health promotion, prevention and care. In order to demonstrate how a broad variety of secondary data can be pooled and reused in a distributed way across Europe, we are conducting research through 4 real life use case on COVID-19 impact in specific subgroup Get to know how PHIRI is creating, implementing and deploying a federated research infrastructure that leverage the reuse of real-world data to answer relevant research question of direct and indirect effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. Learn more about this initiative that allows a quick exchange of data, indicators, good practice and experience in the COVID-19 crisis response in a structured and efficient way. The special edition of the Rapid Exchange Forum aim at acting a a matchmaker between COVID-19-related international activity of organisation or expert group that are already in place or that have been set up during the pandemic to exchange information on measure related to COVID-19. Get to know how PHIRI support Member States in developing future scenario to gain insight in possible future health impact of the COVID-19 outbreak. Facts and figure about PHIRI's communication and dissemination activities. Have a look! It is growing! Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Outputs WP1: Coordination and Management WP2: Dissemination and Communication WP3: Stakeholders' engagement WP4:Health Information Portal for COVID-19 WP5:Research methodology to ass the impact of COVID-19 WP6:Research Use Cases Measuring the Impact of COVID-19 on Population Health WP7: Building a Federated Research Infrastructure WP8:Rapid Exchange Forum WP9: Foresight: Modelling and Scenarios Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Spring School on Health Information 2024 We are glad to have another edition of the PHIRI Spring School on Health Information this year! Join our upcoming course, "Strengthening Resilience and Preparedness for Future Crises in Europe," presented in collaboration with the PHIRI Network and co-organised by the Nova University of Lisbon, Gesundheit sterreich, and Sciensano. This online experience explores innovative topic such a health data collection, Health data analysis, policy and impact measure transfer, data protection (GDPR), and ethical consideration for health information. With a unique pedagogical approach involving dynamic 50-60 minute lectures, discussions, and weekly group exercises, participant will be inspired to explore the future of health information in Europe. This course is designed to help you shape the future of healthcare. , and join u on this inspirational journey of discovery and transformation towards strengthening resilience and preparedness for future crisis in Europe! Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Our December newsletter is here! The 23rd issue of the PHIRI newsletter is out! Dive into PHIRI's latest updates, outcomes, and many other interesting content. Check it out ! Subscribe to our newsletter ! Find all the previous newsletter ! Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation PHIRI at the European Public Health Conference 2023 PHIRI will be co-organising or participating in many interesting session at the 2023 edition of the in Dublin. Discover them below! This will be the occasion to present many outcome from our work. The presentation from the PHIRI session are now available! WEDNESDAY 08th NOVEMBER 09:00 - 12:30 | Preconference: A guideline to the European Health Data Space language based on health literacy principles. 13:30 - 17:00 | Preconference: Better public health: a data centered approach to interoperability, with international information standards. 13:30 - 17:00 | Preconference: Reuse of sensitive individual data Methods and tool for a federated approach. (not complete) THURSDAY 09th NOVEMBER 09:00 - 10:00 | 1.D. Workshop: Long COVID: A Myth or a reality? - Insights from the PHIRI Network: How different Countries deal with Long-COVID related issue and developments. 09:00 - 10:00 | 1.G. Round table: European Health Data Space: Development of a European metadata catalogue. 09:00 - 10:00 | 1.O. Workshop: Caesarean section in Europe: Are woman and baby receiving evidence-based obstetric care? 09:00 - 10:00 | 2.O. Workshop: Mother and child health - Preterm birth and stillbirth rate during COVID-19 pandemic: difference by socioeconomic status. 10:30 - 11:30 | 2.G. Round table: Member States Health Information Systems: State-of-play and best practices. 16:40 - 17:40 | 4.F. Workshop: Supporting present policy making to address future challenges: foresight and public health policies. SATURDAY 12th NOVEMBER 09:00 - 10:00 | 9.P. Pitch presentation: Trends in mental health diagnosis and use of resource in Europe during the COVID-19 pandemic. 11:40 12:40 | 10.S. Poster walk: Tackling infectious diseases, preparing for the next pandemic PHIRI poster: By Elizabeth Berghuis Mutubuki (RIVM). PHIRI poster: By Sarah Aldridge (Swansea University). POSTERS DISPLAY 08:00 - 19:00 | DH.19 Poster: Cross-country knowledge-sharing tools: The example of the PHIRI Rapid Exchange Forum 08:00 - 19:00 | DB.18 Poster: Indicators used in policy monitoring document and decision tool assessing the impact of COVID-19. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Harmonising advance in Long COVID research: Uniting European actor for solution PHIRI is organising a on the theme: "Harmonizing advance in Long COVID research: Uniting European actor for solutions", on October 9, 2023, remotely from 9:00 to 10:00 CET. We are welcoming speaker who are key experts, Long COVID researcher and advocate who will present their main activity along with update from their expert groups/organizations. We are hoping this will bring attention to some of the organizational perspective on what actor are involved with researching the condition and supporting patients. Programme: 9:00 Welcome by Nienke Schutte (project coordinator PHIRI) 9:05 Short Pitches Stefan Schreck (European Commission) Richard Pentz (Austrian National Public Health Institute GG) Sarah Moreels (Sciensano) Chantal Britt (Long COVID Europe) Graziano Onder (Universit Cattolica del Sacro Cuore) Olivier Robineau(University of Lille) 9:45 Questions and Discussions 10:00 End Special Edition REF / Start Biweekly REF Minutes For the minute of the event, click . For the previous edition of the Rapid Exchange Forum - Special Edition click . Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Rapid Exchange Forum - Special Edition Introduction To avoid duplication of work, we believe it is highly relevant to be aware of other international activity and expert group already in place that exchange information on measure related to COVID-19 that require rapid actions. In this regard, we wish to organize once per trimester a Rapid Exchange Forum (REF) Special Edition, where key guest of international organisation in the COVID-19 field can layout their main activities, boards/expert group and map the different COVID-19 activity performed by their organisations. The goal of the Special Edition of REF is to shed some light on the international activity and expert group that are already in place or that have been set up during the pandemic to exchange information on measure related to COVID-19 and that require rapid action. First meeting - 15th of February, 2021 The guest speaker for the first Special Edition of the REF are: Eurostat Giampaolo Lanzieri Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Gaetan Lafortune European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) Howard Needham European observatory on health system and policy (OBS) Marina Karanikolos Second meeting - 26th of April, 2021 The guest speaker for the second Special Edition of the REF are: The European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies Marina Karanikolos Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Emily Hewlett World Health Organisation Boris Pavlin . Third meeting - 8th of November, 2021 The guest speaker for the third Special Edition of the REF are: World Health OrganistionRegional Office for Europe David Novillo Ortiz European Medicines Agency Rosa Gonzalez-Quevedo Vaccination Task Force Portugal Admiral HenriqueGouveia e Melo . Fourth meeting - 28th of March, 2022 The guest speaker for the fourth Special Edition of the REF are: European Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority (HERA)-Christian Wimmer European observatory on health system and policy (OBS) -Matthias Wismar Fifth meeting - 27th of February, 2023 The guest speaker for the fifth Special Edition of the REF are: PHIRI: - Miriam Saso, Sciensano TEHDAS: - Linda Abboud, Sciensano EU HIP: - Shona Cosgrove, Sciensano ECDC:Public health surveillance in a pandemic, how to prepare - Bruno Ciancio, ECDC Sixth meeting - 9th of October, 2023 The guest speaker for the fourth Special Edition of the REF are: Stefan Schreck(European Commission) Richard Pentz(Austrian National Public Health Institute GG) Sarah Moreels(Sciensano) Chantal Britt(Long COVID Europe) Graziano Onder(Universit Cattolica del Sacro Cuore) Olivier Robineau(University of Lille) . Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation PHIRI 3 Years Anniversary: From Data to Public Health Actions! We are pleased to invite you to the PHIRI 3Years Anniversary Conference, taking place on Friday 22ndof September between 9.00 - 12.45CEST in Townhall Europe (Sq. de Mees 5, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium). ABOUT PHIRI, the Population Health Information Research Infrastructure,is implementing a research infrastructure to facilitate and generate the best available evidence for research on health and well-being of population a impacted by COVID-19. As we are celebrating it three year anniversary, PHIRI invite all it consortium partner and national and international stakeholder to this event in Brussels. Find below the detailed programme of the event! REGISTRATION The PHIRI anniversary conference will be a hybrid event. The deadline to subscribe for the in person event is Thursday 14th of September. PROGRAMME 09:00 | Registration and Coffee The door of the venue will be open to the public at 9.00. After completing the registration and obtain the name tags, participant will be offered coffee and refreshments. 09:30| Opening Dirk Ramaekers (Belgium's Federal Public Service 'Public Health')will open the meeting. Petronille Bogaert (former principal investigator of PHIRI at Sciensano, since 1/09/23 Policy Officer B2 Health Security DG SANTE European Commission) will moderate throughout the event. 09:45 |Keynote speaker Nienke Schutte (Sciensano) will set the scene, introduce PHIRI and the theme of the Conference. 10:00 | Panel: Powerful tool to boost the reuse of health data Hanna Tolonen (Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare - THL) and Enrique Bernal- Delgado(Health Sciences Institute in Aragon - IACS)will introduce some of the key PHIRI outcome in relation to tool to boost the reuse of health data such a the Health Information Portal. The short presentation will be followed by a panel discussion with expert from a range of national and international organisation very active in this field: Niklas Blomberg (ELIXIR) Jerome de Barros (European Commission - DG SANTE) Jana Makedonska (European Commission -HaDEA) 10:45|Intermezzo: Strengthening the European health workforce Lus Lapo (Nova University Lisbon - UNL)and Mariana Peyroteo(Nova University Lisbon - UNL) will shortly introduce the work of PHIRI for capacity building and it collaboration in the field. Front-row comment by field expert from Robert Otok(Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region-ASPHER) and Matthias Wismar (European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies - OBS) 11:00| Coffee break The conference will break for 30 mins. Refreshments will be offered to all the onsite participants. 11:30 | Video: PHIRI roadshow Barthlmy Moreau de Lizoreux (Sciensano) will present the new PHIRI video, showcasing the PHIRI achievement and latest outputs. 11:35 |Building stronger health system Henk Hilderink (RIVM)and Miriam Saso (Sciensano)will introduce some of the key PHIRI outcome in relation to building stronger health systems.The short presentation will be followed by a panel discussion with expert from a range of national and international organisation very active in thefield: Bruno Ciancio (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control - ECDC) Eric Sutherland (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - OECD) Maria Daniel Loureiro (European Commission - DG HERA) Dimitra Panteli (European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies - OBS) 12:20 |Intermezzo: Building collective intelligence: Rapid Exchange Forum Claudia Habl (Austrian National Public Health Institute - Gesundheit sterreich) will present one of the key activity of PHIRI, the Rapid Exchange Forum and how this tool helped public health institute across Europe to quickly gather information across Europe essential for policy decision making. Front-row comment by field expert from Jorgen Stassijns (Sciensano) andNeville Calleja (Ministry of Health, Malta) 12:35 | Wrap-up and closing Nienke Schutte (Sciensano) together with Andreas Holtel (European Research Executive Agency - REA) will summarize the discussion of the morning and close the event. 12:45|Networking lunch A networking lunch will be offered to all the onsite participants. The guest speaker will remain available until 14.00 to answer all the question from the attendees. VENUE The event will take place at the TownHall Europe (Square de Mees 5, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium). Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation European Public Health Week 2023 - PHIRI Rapid Exchange Forum open session - COVID-19 impact on mental health At the occasion of first day of the European Public Health Week 2023, dedicated to the topic "Mental health for all", PHIRI is glad to organise a public session of it Rapid Exchange Forum. This week PHIRI Rapid Exchange Forum discus the - yet to come - impact of COVID-19 on mental health of European citizen with input from Austria, Hungary and Portugal followed by a moderated country-exchange. Learn more about the PHIRI Rapid Exchange Forum . Learn more about the European Public Health Week . As for the other session of the PHIRI Rapid Exchange Forum, the answer to question discussed during the REF meeting are uploaded to the European Health Information Portal . . Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Date: December 8, 2023 PHIRI will be co-organising or participating in many interesting session at the 2023 edition of the in Dublin. Discover them below! This will be the occasion to present many outcome from our work. The presentation from the PHIRI session are now available! Date: Mon, 10/09/2023 - 09:00 - Mon, 10/09/2023 - 10:00 PHIRI is organising a on the theme: "Harmonizing advance in Long COVID research: Uniting European actor for solutions", on October 9, 2023, remotely from 9:00 to 10:00 CET. Date: Fri, 09/22/2023 - 09:00 - Fri, 09/22/2023 - 12:30 We are pleased to invite you to the PHIRI 3Years Anniversary Conference, taking place on Friday 22ndof September between 9.00 - 12.45CEST in Townhall Europe (Sq. de Mees 5, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium). Date: May 22, 2023 Date: Tue, 05/02/2023 - 08:00 - Sat, 05/06/2023 - 18:00 PHIRI wa happy to participate in the 17th World Congress on Public Health in Rome, with many session and a poster! The presentation of our session have been uploaded. Date: April 3, 2023We are glad to present this session dedicated to the European Health Information Portal at the occasion of the Global Public Health Week 2023. Date: March 8, 2023On the 8th and 9th March 2023, the European Parliament's special committee on the COVID-19 pandemic (COVI) organised We had the honour to be invited to present PHIRI and our lesson learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic. Date: Thu, 03/02/2023 - 09:00 - Thu, 03/30/2023 - 12:30 In March 2023 (5 Thursdays), PHIRI will organise a Spring School on Health Information, themed "COVID-19 Health Information Innovations for the Future". Pagination Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Disclaimer Disclaimer excluding Agency and Commission responsibility The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility.The European Research Executive Agency (REA) and the European Commission are not responsible for any use that may be made of the information it contains. Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024 Search Toggle navigation Privacy notice of PHIRI Welcome to the Privacy Notice of PHIRI. Our Privacy Notice explains you in a clear, transparent and simple yet correct way when, why and how PHIRI collects, us and protects personal information of the people who provide u with such personal information. When you decide to provide u with your personal data you confirm that you have read through these privacy conditions. The data will be used in accordance with the consent that you have given and with the European Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 (entered into force on 25 May 2018) on the protection of natural person with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (GDPR). This Privacy Notice is also intended to assist you in making informed decision when using our website. Please take a minute to read and understand it and please note that it should be read in conjunction with our General Terms and Conditions and our Cookie Policy. About u We are PHIRI, the Population Health Information Research Infrastructure. It brings together 41partner institution from 30countries across Europe. Sciensano, is the coordinator of this joint action. 1. What is your personal data? Personal data relates to a living individual who can be identified from that data. Identification can be by the information alone or in conjunction with any other information in the Data Controllers possession or likely to come into such possession. 2. What data do we collect? We only collect your name, email address and the data you freely transfer u while contacting u by mail. PHIRI may also collect certain information about your hardware and software, this includes: - your IP address - browser type - operating system - access time - referring website address 3. Who is collecting your data? PHIRI is a project and website owned by Sciensano. Sciensano is the data controller (Data Controller) for the purpose of this act. 4. How and why we collect and use your personal information We collect your personal information to send you newsletters, for which you subscribed yourself. To collect your personal information and to send you newsletter we use an online marketing platform called Mailchimp. The information we receive when you contact u by email will solely be used to achieve the indicated purpose of the communication. Other reason of the usage of your information can be: - to ensure that the content on our website is presented in the most effective manner for you and your computer 5. Sharing of your information We do not share your information. 6. Storage and protection of your personal information Information collected through the contact form on the website of Sciensano or directly transmitted by email, fax or letter is stored and processed locally and within the European Union. Sciensano us reasonable and adequate safeguard to secure and protect the collected information and take reasonable step to verify the identity of the user who seek to reach the collected personal information. Information transmitted to u is exclusively accessible to responsible people who need access to perform their duties. We will retain your personal information only for a long a reasonably necessary or required by law. 7. Reporting Fraud Sciensano is committed to ensuring your information is secure. As part of our effort to protect your information, we will never send you email asking for your personal information or for your registered password (if you are a registered user). If you do receive such an email or are asked to disclose this information by someone claiming to work for Sciensano, please report the communication to u using the following methods: - send an email to info@sciensano.be - in writing to u at our registered address: Sciensano, Rue Juliette Wytsman 14, 1050 Ixelles, Belgium 8. Your choice regarding your information It is your right to ask u whether your personal information ha been processed by us. In order to exercise this right, you must address a formal request to Sciensano, clearly specifying what you want to consult, rectify or delete. The request must be dated, signed and accompanied by a copy of the front of your ID. If the response to this question is positive, you may request free access to your personal information held by u a well a the reason of the processing and the period during which we will store and process your personal information. You may also request to rectify and erase your personal information, object to the use of it, restrict the use of it and receive your personal information held by us. The deletion of data must be specifically justified. If those requirement are met, Sciensano will comply with your request a quickly a possible and report back to you. Sciensano endeavour to update the data a quickly a possible. Communications may still be sent using the original data until the modification are completed. 9. How about cookies? The Website us so-called "cookies", small information file that are temporarily or permanently stored by the server of a website via the browser on your computer or device and that simplify, complete and personalise the use of the website. The list of cooky used on this website are listed and explained In your browser, you can turn off the storage of cooky or delete stored cookies, but this may lead to diminished functionality, delay or the disablement of certain part of the Website. For more information about cooky and how you can delete them depending on the type of browser you use, we would like to refer you to the following website: . 10. How to contact u If you have any question regarding this privacy notice, your right regarding your personal information or the processing activity of Sciensano in reference to this online contact form, you can always contact u at Herman van Oyen Rue Juliette Wytsman 14 1050 Ixelles, Belgium T : +32 2 642 51 11 F : +32 2 642 50 01 The Data Protection Office service and the Data Protection Officer of Sciensano can be contacted via email dpo@sciensano.be. If you wish to contact the national supervising authority, you can contact: Data Protection Authority Rue de la Presse 35 1000 Bruxelles (Belgium) T : + 32 (0)2 274 48 00 F : +32 (0)2 274 48 35 Subscribe to our newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name Consent I agree to my personal data being stored and used for distribution of the PHIRI newsletter CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Follow us! PHIRI Workspace Click to access the secured workspace (SharePoint). Only for PHIRI collaborators. Click to request an access. This project ha received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovationprogramme under grant agreement No 101018317. - Copyright 2024