PIONEER is part of the Innovative Medicine Initiatives (IMIs) Big Data for Better Outcomes (BD4BO) umbrella programme. The BD4BO mission is to improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe by maximising the potential of Big Data PIONEER aim to transform the field of prostate cancer care with particular focus on improving prostate-cancer related outcomes, health system efficiency and the quality of health and social care across Europe. Our goal is to ensure the optimal care for all European men living with prostate cancer by unlocking the potential of Big Data and Big Data analytics. Contact u PIONEERThe European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer Static homepage Combining & analysing the patient record of men diagnosed with prostate cancer allowing healthcare system to provide more efficient outcome-driven patient-centred interventions. PIONEER Core Outcome Sets for Prostate Cancer endorsed by the European Association of Urology a reflection of the importance of COS for the advancement of clinical practice PIONEER online search tool for prostate cancer diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers developed by a multidisciplinary team using a four step approach Latest Project Results Our knowledge on how to approach and treat prostate cancer change daily. With the purpose of providing our patient with the best possible information we need tool to keep u up to date. The PIONEER diagnostic & prognostic factor search tool will provide easy access to validated patient and disease specific factor that can be implemented for each patient individually to provide better patient-centered care Dr. Lisa Morris, EAU & PIONEER Associate News & Events PIONEER Big Data in Prostate Cancer project continues a PIONEER+ and will be integrated into the EAU`s UroEvidenceHub... A unique infrastructure in Europe that enables a collaborative research environment to improve prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care... PIONEER The European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer welcome Lantheus a a new... Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u About u PIONEER is part of the Innovative Medicine Initiatives (IMIs) Big Data for Better Outcomes (BD4BO) umbrella programme. The BD4BO mission is to improve health outcome and healthcare system in Europe by maximising the potential of Big Data PIONEER aim to transform the field of prostate cancer care with particular focus on improving prostate-cancer related outcomes, health system efficiency and the quality of health and social care across Europe. To learn more about our overall mission, consortium partners, advisory boards, individual work stream and the BD4BO programme explore the link below. PIONEER's missionPIONEER's mission The need for PIONEER Consortium partnersConsortium partner Learn more about our partner Work packagesWork package How we work Project outcomesProject outcome PIONEER result & resource Advisory boardsAdvisory board Scientific and ethical oversight BD4BO & the IMIBD4BO & the IMI Public-private health partnership Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Big Data platform PIONEER Big Data Platform The PIONEER Big Data Platform offer a central and federated state-of-the-art Big Data analytic platform for prostate cancer. The platform anonymous data is harmonised to the European Common Data Model, OMOP-CDM, following all legal and ethical requirements. The PIONEER Big Data platform brings together diverse datasets, contributed by our Partners and Associated Members, including the pharmaceutical industry, hospital electronic health records, large registry study and interventional, and non-interventional trials. The PIONEER Big Data platform is about building an open and transparent infrastructure that enables a collaborative research environment to improve prostate cancer care for patient and their family focusing on: prostate cancer-related outcomes; health system efficiency; and the quality of health and social care across Europe. PIONEER will make a meaningful contribution towards improved patient stratification, and improved identification of low- and high-risk patients, including which patient are more likely to respond to a specific treatment. PIONEERs result will improve evidence-based shared decision-making for all prostate cancer patients, ultimately minimising inequality between all European prostate cancer patient through the standardisation of care pathway across Europe. Why is PIONEER importantWhy is PIONEER important Learn more about the knowledge gap in prostate cancer here Data source & contributorsData source & contributor Find out where the data in PIONEER come from here Data processing & data protectionData processing & data protection Learn how patient data is protected in PIONEER & how we process the data Data analytics & research teamsData analytics & research team Interested in how we analysis data in PIONEER? Find out more here The PIONEER Big Data Platform for Prostate Cancer is aunique infrastructure in Europe that enables a collaborative research environment to improve prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care for patient and their families. Read all about it at: PIONEER Big Data Platform explainer Dr. Bertrand De Meulder and Dr. Michaell Bussmann explains what the PIONEER Big Data Platform is, and how it can be used to further prostate cancer research. Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Project Outcomes The IMI support collaborative research project and build network of industrial and academic expert to boost pharmaceutical innovation in Europe. As a IMI2 Joint Undertaking project all PIONEER public results, resource including deliverable summaries, presentations, project brochures, newsletter and video are available here. Core Outcome Sets & Patient Reported Outcome MeasuresCore Outcome Sets & Patient Reported Outcome Measures Review our core outcome set for prostate cancer Prostate Cancer Diagnostic and Prognostic Factors Search ToolProstate Cancer Diagnostic and Prognostic Factors Search Tool Try our online search tool for prostate cancer diagnostic and prognostic factor Active Research Topics & StudyathonsActive Research Topics & Studyathons Find out more about our active research topic here Publications & NewslettersPublications & Newsletters Project publications, newsletter & leaflet PIONEER DeliverablesPIONEER Deliverables Review the project deliverable here Video InterviewsVideo Interviews Watch all our latest project video here Congress PresentationsCongress Presentations Abstracts, poster & presentation Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u For patient Critical knowledge gap in prostate cancer Critical knowledge gap in relation to the screening, diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer patient make clinical practice decision-making difficult and inconsistent; this mean that predicting which patient will have the best outcome with specific treatment is currently suboptimal. These gap are dispersed throughout the patient journey (from diagnosis to treatment) and they compromise the quality of care provided to patients, a well a affecting their quality of life. At the start of PIONEER, the EAU Prostate Cancer Guideline panel and other Key Opinion Leaders were contacted to identify the most important knowledge gaps. Afterwards, the PIONEER consortium performed a prioritisation survey among two stakeholder groups: healthcare professional including pharmaceutical company and prostate cancer patient to identify and prioritise a list of the top five research question in prostate cancer. In total, 73 healthcare professional and 57 patient participated in round one of the surveys. Twelve question were proposed during the first round. For the second round the patient survey were also translated into French, German, Italian and Spanish. Forty nine healthcare professional and 169 patient (including 53 English; 19 French; 31 German; 53 Italian; 13 Spanish) participated in round two of the surveys. The result were analysed by calculating the percentage of respondent scoring each question a not important, important or critically important. These 56 question were then re-ordered according to the highest percentage for critically important, enabling identification of the top 5 question from the two each stakeholder groups. PIONEERs top five research question are: What are the relevant tumour-specific and patient-specific variable that affect prognosis of PCa patient suitable for active surveillance? What is the natural history of PCa patient undergoing conservative management (i.e., watchful waiting) and what is the impact of comorbidities and life expectancy on long-term outcomes? Currently, the scientific community generally applies the EAU Guidelines PCa risk stratification, stratifying patient into low-, intermediate- and high-risk PCa. This is based on the risk of recurrent disease of patient after radical treatments. However, this risk stratification still ha it limit and patient still have very heterogeneous outcome especially in the high-risk group. What we still do not know is what differentiates patient with lethal v non-lethal disease, irrespective of their risk stratification. When should we treat patients, who experience prostate cancer recurrence after primary treatment, and which are the most effective therapeutic approaches? Which specific patient group benefit most of upfront chemotherapy? What are the side effect and What is impact on quality of life in real-life practice of chemotherapy in this setting? For more information on how these question will be addressed in PIONEER read our overview. For more patient friendly information on the project in general download the Patient testimonial Patient representatives, Erik Briers and Ken Mastris, reflect on the relevance of PIONEER for prostate cancer patients. Erik Briers, prostate cancer patient, Belgium The PIONEER project and it application of real-world data to answer unknown question relating to prostate cancer is very important for patients. Clinical trial are done with highly selected patients, thus many subpopulation (e.g. patient with kidney problems) are excluded. Once new medicine received market authorisation all patient can be treated with them, but really we have no data on their benefit to patient in the untested subpopulations. Big Data and real-world data can deliver the answer to this question: Do patient in subgroup benefit?. The answer to this question ha the potential to protect patient from unwanted side effect from medicine that may in fact have no benefit to them. It also enables saving across healthcare systems; ultimately, making our healthcare system more sustainable. This is just one example of many, so yes, PIONEER and the BD4BO programme is of high importance to patients. Ken Mastris, prostate cancer patient, United Kingdom Its time for more research on prostate cancer. Overall it effect nearly a many people a breast cancer, but up to now ha received comparatively minimum research funding, and progress made in this field ha been limited when compared to other major cancer types. Insufficient knowledge of patient characteristic and risk factor at time of diagnosis mean that deciding which patient will have the best outcome with specific treatment is challenging at best. Big Data if properly combined and analysed can bridge this knowledge gap. Therefore, the goal of the BD4BO programme and PIONEER will help future patients. I hope it brings early stratification of patient at diagnosis so patient can make the right choice of treatment for them guided by their urologist. Fixing the gap in the patient journey will benefitall. Maria Ribal Dissemination & Communication Lead Maria Ribal talk about the importance of the patient voice in PIONEER and how effective dissemination is key to the long-term success of the project. Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u News & event PIONEER Big Data in Prostate Cancer project continues a PIONEER+ and will be integrated into the EAU`s UroEvidenceHub initiative a the hub for prostate cancer research and support. Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 31st October 2023 The European funded... A unique infrastructure in Europe that enables a collaborative research environment to improve prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care for patient and their families. Read all about it at: PIONEER Big Data Platform PIONEER The European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer welcome Lantheus a a new external data and technology provider to the consortium! PIONEER (Prostate Cancer DIagnOsis and TreatmeNt Enhancement through the Power of Big... 6 September 2023, Brussels PIONEER a part of a multi-stakeholder group consisting of 32 European patient organisations, medical associations, research organisations, data collaboration and industry association met EU officials, including MEP Tomislav Sokol, Co-Rapporteur, a well a several... The European funded prostate cancer project PIONEER Big Data in Prostate Cancer and the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong have signed a data sharing agreement to ensure more data diversity and a better... On 6 June, PIONEER joined together with 31 other health stakeholder to share view on specific recommendation for a potential opt-out mechanism in the future EHDS. These organisation and initiative have joined force because they all share the view... 1... Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Contact Address PIONEER Attn Prof. J. NDow, Coordinator Attn Dr. E.J. Smith European Association of Urology Guidelines Office Mr. E.N. van Kleffensstraat 5 6842 CV Arnhem The Netherlands Contact detail E: pioneer.info@uroweb.org PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u PIONEERThe European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer Static homepage Combining & analysing the patient record of men diagnosed with prostate cancer allowing healthcare system to provide more efficient outcome-driven patient-centred interventions. PIONEER Core Outcome Sets for Prostate Cancer endorsed by the European Association of Urology a reflection of the importance of COS for the advancement of clinical practice PIONEER online search tool for prostate cancer diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers developed by a multidisciplinary team using a four step approach Latest Project Results Our knowledge on how to approach and treat prostate cancer change daily. With the purpose of providing our patient with the best possible information we need tool to keep u up to date. The PIONEER diagnostic & prognostic factor search tool will provide easy access to validated patient and disease specific factor that can be implemented for each patient individually to provide better patient-centered care Dr. Lisa Morris, EAU & PIONEER Associate News & Events PIONEER Big Data in Prostate Cancer project continues a PIONEER+ and will be integrated into the EAU`s UroEvidenceHub... A unique infrastructure in Europe that enables a collaborative research environment to improve prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care... PIONEER The European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer welcome Lantheus a a new... Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Data source & contributor Where doe the data in the PIONEER platform come from? Data in the PIONEER Big Data Platform is coming from source all over Europe and the world. We have identified 95 potential prostate cancer data source from 16 countries. These include data set from hospitals, research institutes, biobanks and OMICs consortia, the pharmaceutical industry and biotech companies. Each data source ha an associated data fact sheet which allows to ass which data source contain the most relevant information for a given research question. Monique Roobol Erasmus MC Listen toProf. Monique Roobol from Erasmus MC explain why she belief contributing data to the PIONEER Big Data platform will be game changing of prostate cancer research. Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Core Outcome Sets PIONEER Prostate Cancer Core Outcome Sets The PIONEER Core Outcome Sets (COSs) for Localised, Locally Advanced, Metastatic, and Non-metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer are the result of a methodological rigorous systematic review and consensus finding process with a diverse range of prostate cancer stakeholder including clinicians, nurses, researchers, industry partner and most importantly patients. The PIONEER Prostate Cancer COSs have also been endorsed by the European Association of Urology, Europes leading medical authority on urological practice, research, and education. A reflection on the importance of COS for the advancement of clinical practice. The PIONEER Prostate Cancer COSs are a continually evolving resource. They represent a minimum set of outcomes, which can be amended with defendable justification, depending on clinical setting and change in the treatment landscape. Therefore, we would highly encourage everybody to start measuring these outcome to improve treatment and care for prostate cancer patients. click the edit button to change this text. click the edit button to change this text. click the edit button to change this text. Consensus Definitions PIONEER Core Outcome Sets Patient Reported Outcome Measures Prostate cancer is characterised by a relatively long natural history, and a substantial proportion of patient die from cause other than the disease itself. Therefore, assessment and monitoring of treatment-related side effect and of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) play a major role in the management of PCa patients. There is increasing awareness of the importance of measuring what were previously regarded a softer outcomes, namely, side effect and HRQoL, using patient reported outcome measure (PROMs). This is crucial when considering that cancer patient may have the possibility of trading HRQoL for length of life. PIONEER ha systematically reviewed both clinician reported outcome andthepsychometric property ofused in localised, locally advanced, and metastatic prostate cancer. Based on the result of the review and subsequent consensus processes, PIONEER recommended minimum set of clinician and patient reported outcomes, provided definition or each, and recommended PROMs, for use in routine practice and research setting click the edit button to change this text. click the edit button to change this text. PIONEER Disease Understanding Work Package Listen to Dr. Steven MacLennan and Prof. Mieke Van Hemelrijck explain what core outcome set are and why they are important. Followed by Dr. Elena Sisca and Dr. Monica Ratti discussing patient reported outcome measure and their impact on clinical research and patient care. Share this: PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u DPFs Online Search Tool PIONEER Diagnostic & Prognostic Factor Online Search Tool Background & Development Process Multiple biomarkers are available to improve prostate cancer diagnosis and prognosis. However, knowledge on which diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers can be used to select patient for a specific treatment remains unclear. Developed by a multidisciplinary team using a four step approach the PIONEER online search tool for prostate cancer diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers aim to bridge this knowledge gap. For information on the methodology behind the PIONEER search tool read the project . What motivates PIONEER researcher "It wa a truly cross-functional project where we brought together expertise from very different areas. In my case it is expertise about natural language processing and annotation of digital documents. In Dans case it wa the programming skills, and other colleague brought in the medical knowledge etc. Thus, we brought together expert from different field to have all those component that were necessary to make this work."Dr. Wolfgang ThielemannHead of Semantic & Knowledge Graph Technologies Bayer AG"Our knowledge on how to approach and treat prostate cancer change daily. With the purpose of providing our patient with the best possible information we need tool to keep u up to date. Our DPF tool will provide easy access to validated patient and disease specific factor which can be implemented for each patient individually to provide better patient-centered care."Dr. Lisa MorrisUrology Resident & EAU Guidelines Office Senior Associate"As one of the researchers, I wa very much aware of all the work that wa put into this including the background work from the core outcome set developed in WP2. For me it wa very motivating to turn all this work into an online platform where it can be showcased and used. Dan and Wolfgang did agreat job in translating our groundwork into this platform and the platform development wa really efficient."Dr. Megan MolnarEpidemiologist Bayer AG"DPFs that are capable of significantly improving diagnosis and prognosis in prostate cancer are an unmet need a most of them require additional evaluation in properly designed studies. Developing a tool that help researcher to understand the quality of the current available studies, motivated me a lot."Dr. Mieke Van HemelrijckProf. of Cancer Epidemiology Head of TOUR King's College London"Diagnosis and prognosis play a vital role in patient management and decision making. The assessment of DPFs is one of the major objective in clinical research and I wa excited to take part in such an important project."Dr. Michael LardasUrologist Greece & EAU Guidelines Senior Assoicate"It stood out how quickly we went from first discussion to the first working prototype and further to the final product. We were able to accomplish this due to the close collaboration with everyone involved a well ast he lean setup and tool chain which we developed within DTLab. As for my motivation, I particularly enjoy participating in project that facilitate collaboration with other external organization and thus bringing expert from across industry and academia and their insight together."Dan PlischkeSystem Architect Digital Technologies Lab Bayer PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Press release: PIONEER Big Data for Better Outcomes join force with the European Association of Urologys UroEvidenceHub to combat prostate cancer and other urological disease Press release: PIONEER Big Data for Better Outcomes join force with the European Association of Urologys UroEvidenceHub to combat prostate cancer and other urological disease Press release: PIONEER Big Data for Better Outcomes join force with the European Association of Urologys UroEvidenceHub to combat prostate cancer and other urological disease Posted on October 31, 2023 in PIONEER Big Data in Prostate Cancer project continues a PIONEER+ and will be integrated into the EAU`s UroEvidenceHub initiative a the hub for prostate cancer research and support. Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 31st October 2023 The European funded prostate cancer (PCa) project PIONEER will continue to perform data analytics, real world evidence generation and other research activity a PIONEER+ also after the official project end on 31 October 2023. PIONEER+ becomes the foundational partner for Prostate Cancer research and support of the emerging UroEvidenceHub initiative by the European Association of Urology. Their common vision is to dramatically improve diagnosis and treatment of PCa and other Urological Conditions to drastically reduce the burden of Urological Conditions in the population. This shall be done through the use of big data analytics, data driven Clinical Guidelines and Decision Support Tools. (Prostate Cancer DIagnOsis and TreatmeNt Enhancement through the Power of Big Data in EuRope) is an European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer, consisting of 34 private and public stakeholder in prostate cancer research and clinical care from across 10 countries. Through unlocking the potential of Big Data, PIONEER address important patient and physician question regarding the diagnosis, treatment and management of Prostate Cancer. By generating Real World Evidence, the interdisciplinary project team aim to change the prostate cancer landscape and to improve the health and social care received by all prostate cancer patient and their families. (UHE) is a new data innovation programme of the European Association of Urology (EAU) and a Real-World Evidence (RWE) generation ecosystem that will use big data, artificial intelligence and data science to accelerate research on personalized care for patient across all urological condition stating with Prostate Cancer. The ultimate goal of the 2023 founded UroEvidenceHub is to close the gap between clinical practice guideline and individual patient characteristic and disease variability. By bringing the data (secondary a well a prospectively collected PROMS, PREMS, and QoL) and analytics together, we seek to enable more personalized patient care across all urological conditions.., say Prof. James NDow, Adjunct Secretary General of the European Association of Urology and Project Coordinator of PIONEER. In over 5 year of working together in a multidisciplinary team of leading professional in their field of expertise, PIONEER ha created a legacy with the PIONEER Big Data Platform. PIONEER+ form the ideal partner of the UroEvidenceHub a it will continue to address the urgent question in prostate cancer care and support patient outcome and decision making within the UroEvidenceHub. PIONEER+ and UHE will thus maximise synergy to augment the benefit for the patient and their families. Legacy of PIONEER Big Data in Prostate Cancer Since it start on 1st May 2018, PIONEER ha been a unique collaboration between the consortium member which include Physicians, Academic Researchers, industry partners, public company and patients. The high degree of motivation and engagement a well a the close involvement of patient played a central role from the beginning. These are the project key achievements: Together with patients, key opinion leader and health care professionals, fifty-six prioritized research question important to all stakeholder were identified, out of which the top five question about the diagnosis and management of Prostate Cancer were prioritized. To address and answer these, the team set out to develop a unique central and federated state-of-the-art Big Data analytic platform for prostate cancer. So far, the PIONEER team ha identified over 100 relevant databases, mapped to the OMOP-CDM and made available for research over 40 data set a part of the . The Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) Common Data Model (CDM) is an open community data standard, designed to standardize the structure and content of observational data and to enable efficient analysis that can produce reliable evidence. The PIONEER consortium ha successfully conducted three international large-scale study-a-thons and ha established over a dozen different research team looking at specific research questions. PIONEER managed to develop a common vocabulary and understanding of method and technique making it possible to efficiently execute on research project bringing together scientist with background in observational research, a well a others coming more from the clinical research and/or clinical practice arena. The output of this includes over a dozen manuscripts, and numerous conference presentations. With the help of intensive patient participation, PIONEER ha published that were endorsed by the European Association of Urology. PIONEER ha systematically reviewed both clinician reported outcome andthepsychometric property ofused in localised, locally advanced, and metastatic prostate cancer. Based on the result of the review and subsequent consensus processes, PIONEER recommended minimum set of clinician and patient reported outcomes, provided definition or each, and recommended PROMs, for use in routine practice and research settings. Furthermore, PIONEER ha developed and launched an . Combining the ongoing activity at PIONEER with the emerging data innovation vision at the EAU provides the best opportunity for PIONEER to continue to have an impact on not only Prostate Cancer but leverage it experience to impact many other disease across urology and beyond to other non-urological diseases. Stakeholders are invited to collaborate with PIONEER+ and UHE Welcome to all interested clinicians, researchers, data scientists, and patients! Become part of the community and work togeher on many of the challenge we are facing. If we want to use big data to answer core research questions, we need everyone. PIONEER+ offer working with a broader and well-rehearsed research scientific community that take good care of cooperation with partners. It`s not the end it`s just the beginning of an exciting and meaningful journey. For further information: PIONEER Twitter: PIONEER LinkedIn: Project Contact: Project Coordinator: Prof. James N`Dow, EAU (and University of Aberdeen) Private Project Leader: Dr. Susan Evans Axelsson, Bayer AB Press Contact: Dr. Monika Maa ARTTIC Innovation GmbH PIONEER (Prostate Cancer DIagnOsis and TreatmeNt Enhancement through the Power of Big Data in EuRope) is a European project focused on using big data to improve the clinical understanding and inform the diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer, funded through IMI2 JU, and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Union`s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). The view communicated within are those of PIONEER. Neither the IMI nor the European Union, EFPIA or any associated partner are responsible for any use that may be made of the information contained herein. www.prostate-pioneer.eu ARTTIC Innovation GmbH ha been advising research and innovation project for more than 33 years. As project management and communication partner, we make sure that our project run successfully and that project result and event are disseminated in the best possible way. ARTTIC is a subsidiary of the PNO Group, one of the largest consultancy for publicly funded project in research and development. For more information, please visit. We take your privacy seriously. Clickto read our privacy policy. If you no longer wish to receive email from us, please email . Share this article: 0 Related Articles Recent Posts PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u PIONEER News Flash The PIONEER Big Data Platform for Prostate Cancer PIONEER News Flash The PIONEER Big Data Platform for Prostate Cancer PIONEER News Flash The PIONEER Big Data Platform for Prostate Cancer Posted on October 26, 2023 in A unique infrastructure in Europe that enables a collaborative research environment to improve prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care for patient and their families. Read all about it at: Share this article: 0 Related Articles Recent Posts PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Welcome! PIONEER News Flash Lantheus join the PIONEER Big Data consortium to strengthen the AI enabled PSMA imaging biomarker. Welcome! PIONEER News Flash Lantheus join the PIONEER Big Data consortium to strengthen the AI enabled PSMA imaging biomarker. Welcome! PIONEER News Flash Lantheus join the PIONEER Big Data consortium to strengthen the AI enabled PSMA imaging biomarker. Posted on October 6, 2023 in PIONEER The European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer welcome Lantheus a a new external data and technology provider to the consortium! PIONEER (Prostate Cancer DIagnOsis and TreatmeNt Enhancement through the Power of Big Data in EuRope), led by the European Association of Urology (project Coordinator) and Bayer AG (private leader) is a European Network of Excellence for Big Data in Prostate Cancer, consisting of 34 private and public stakeholder in prostate cancer research and clinical care from across 9 countries. Consortium member are drawn from academic institutions, European organisations, patient advocacy groups, clinicians, and pharmaceutical companies, a well a regulatory agencies, expert in legal data management, economics and ethics, and information and technology specialists. Through unlocking the potential of Big Data and the generation of Real-World Evidence, PIONEER aim to change the prostate cancer landscape to improve the health and social care received by all prostate cancer patient and their families. Lantheus, the leading radiopharmaceutical-focused company, is the global leader in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Technology for standardization and reproducible quantitative assessment of PSMA (Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen) PET (positron emission tomography). PYLARIFY AI, developed by Lantheus, is the only FDA cleared application1 for AI-enabled standardized, reproducible and quantitative assessment of PSMA PET/CT scans, including PYLARIFY (piflufolastat F18) scans. Standardized PSMA PET reporting provides consistent and precise disease burden quantification in support of patient management and tracking over time.2,3,4 Dr. Susan Evans Axelsson, PIONEER project leader and Medical Advisor at Bayer AB: As the EFPIA lead of the PIONEER consortium, I speak for u all when I welcome this new partnership with Lantheus. Their rich imaging data will undoubtably help to answer important question related to prostate cancer patient care and outcomes. In addition to enriching the PIONEER platform with PSMA PET datasets and specialized expertise, this collaboration with Lantheus also open the possibility for new collaboration with the consortium partner even beyond PIONEER. Big Data ha the potential to have a transformative effect across a broad spectrum of area including healthcare systems, patient stratification and disease treatment, trial and product design, and most importantly, patient use of medicines. Lantheus ha one of the largest curated and contextualized PSMA PET/CT data series in Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) format. The combined datasets and resource of Lantheus and PIONEER, will be aimed to validate the clinical utility of PYLARIFY AI enabled PSMA biomarker to diagnose, treat and monitor prostate cancer patients. As a leader in field of prostate cancer and AI, we are thrilled to collaborate with the PIONEER Consortium to unlock the potential of Big Data to improve the diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer, leveraging our AI technology, said Etienne Montagut, Chief Business Officer at Lantheus. Together with Bayer, and all of our partners, we are poised to usher in a new era of innovation empowered by deep learning, with the goal of enhancing patient outcomes. Anders Bjartell, Prof in Urology, academic co-lead in PIONEER A warm welcome also on behalf ofthe academic partner inPIONEER! The image data contribution from Lantheus and theAI technology are extremelyvaluable andimportant to us, a itopens up new possibility to answer question related to the additive clinical value of imaging in clinical decision making. We have worked together with Aseem Anand, VP at Lantheus, on some ground breakingresearch on AI enabled biomarkers inProstate Cancer, and we are excited to expand and scale the collaboration within PIONEER. About Lantheus With more than 65 year of experience in delivering life-changing science, Lantheus is committed to improving patient outcome through diagnostics, radiotherapeutics and artificial intelligence solution that enable clinician to Find, Fight and Follow disease. Lantheus is headquartered in Massachusetts and ha office in New Jersey, Canada and Sweden. For more information, visit . Share this article: 0 Related Articles Recent Posts PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website. Contact u Terms and Conditions Last updated:May 11, 2018 Please read these Terms and Conditions (Terms, Terms and Conditions) carefully before using the http://prostate-pioneer.eu website (the Service) operated byPIONEER (us, we, or our). Your access to and use of the Service is conditioned on your acceptance of and compliance with these Terms. These Terms apply to all visitors, user and others who access or use the Service. By accessing or using the Service you agree to be bound by these Terms. If you disagree with any part of the term then you may not access the Service. Links To Other Web Sites Our Service may contain link to third-party web site or service that are not owned or controlled by PIONEER. PIONEERhas no control over, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, privacy policies, or practice of any third party web site or services. You further acknowledge and agree thatPIONEER shall not be responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with use of or reliance on any such content, good or service available on or through any such web site or services. We strongly advise you to read the term and condition and privacy policy of any third-party web site or service that you visit. Governing Law These Terms shall be governed and construed in accordance with the law of Netherlands, without regard to it conflict of law provisions. Our failure to enforce any right or provision of these Terms will not be considered a waiver of those rights. If any provision of these Terms is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court, the remaining provision of these Terms will remain in effect. These Terms constitute the entire agreement between u regarding our Service, and supersede and replace any prior agreement we might have between u regarding the Service. Changes We reserve the right, at our sole discretion, to modify or replace these Terms at any time. If a revision is material we will try to provide at least 30 day notice prior to any new term taking effect. What constitutes a material change will be determined at our sole discretion. By continuing to access or use our Service after those revision become effective, you agree to be bound by the revised terms. If you do not agree to the new terms, please stop using the Service. Contact Us If you have any question about these Terms, please us. PIONEER is funded through the IMI2 Joint Undertaking and is listed under grant agreement No. 777492. IMI2 receives support from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 2024 PIONEER. This website us cooky to improve user experience. By using our website you consent to all cooky in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website us cooky to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cooky that are categorized a necessary are stored on your browser a they are essential for the working of basic functionality of the website. We also use third-party cooky that help u analyze and understand how you use this website. These cooky will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cooky may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cooky are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cooky that ensures basic functionality and security feature of the website. These cooky do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Any cooky that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded content are termed a non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cooky on your website.