The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) is an initiative of the Swiss Federal Government to establish a national data infrastructure for clinical and omics data for research. The goal of the Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) is the establishment of coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data available, interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland. Our vision is to lay the foundation for a nationwide exchange of health-related data, enabling multidisciplinary personalized health research to improve disease prevention and medical practice, and paving the way for the development of ground-breaking treatments. To achieve this, SPHN ha adopted a decentralized approach and build a scalable network of data providers. To make health data interoperable and accessible for research, we provide common standard for data formats, semantics, governance, and exchange. In addition, we develop process and IT infrastructure that adhere to stringent ethical and legal requirements, for instance regarding data protection. Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Infrastructure building to enable nationwide use and exchange of health data for research An initiative of the Swiss Government The Swiss Personalized Health Network is a national initiative under the leadership of the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences (). In collaboration with the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics it contributes to the development, implementation and validation of coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland. SPHN ha adopted a federative approach by building upon and supporting existing data source and infrastructure across the country. To make health data interoperable and accessible for research, from key clinical, research-, research support institution and patient organization around the same table. The SPHN Management Office () together with the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group () coordinate the funding and drive the development of coordinated infrastructures, compatible data management systems, interoperability of data and governance of guidelines. While the MO is in charge of the administrative and the daily operation of the SPHN initiative, the PHI Group is in charge of the SPHN Data Coordination Center () and the network project, a national IT infrastructure backbone, to enable nationwide health-data exchange for research. BioMedIT provides researcher all over Switzerland with access to a secure and protected computing environment for analysis of sensitive data without compromising data privacy. National, scalable and sustainable. Key in the pioneering implementation and coordination of the national infrastructure is the voluntary contribution of the and the SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) . Members of these advisory- and working group are all national and international expert in a key focus area, such a clinical and molecular medicine, semantics, bioinformatics, technolomics, information technology, IT security and interoperability, data science, ethic and law. See the . Read the . News Change and continuity in the DCC leadership Katrin Crameri, Director of the DCC and Group Leader of SIBs Personalized Health Informatics Group will be handing the rein of the DCC to Thomas Geiger, starting from 1st June on an ad interim basis. Katrin will take over the co-lead for DigiSant and the Digital Transformation Division of FOPH. Data for Health symposium: Registration now open! SPHN and PHRT are pleased to invite you to the upcoming symposium Data for Health: Joining Forces for a Swiss Health Research Data Ecosystem on 31 October 2024at the Kursaal, Bern. Registration is now open. Nominations open for the National ORD Prize The Academies of Sciences Switzerland have opened the nomination for the National Prize for Open Research Data (ORD prize). For the first time, the jury defined a new focus area on Collaborative and/or interdisciplinary reuse of research data. Applications are open until 31 July 2024. Swiss Personalized Health Network: Short Report 2023 In 2023, the NSB published it report on the continuation of the SPHN infrastructure from 2025 onwards. How to successfully operationalize the future SPHN-DCC ha been a key focus over the past year. Read more about SPHNs achievement in 2023 in our latest SPHN Short Report. A solid foundation for AI through SPHN semantic interoperability effort Integrating AI into healthcare and research hold immense promise for the future. SPHN's semantic interoperability strategy set clear definition and utilizes open standards, facilitating the efficient provision of clinical data for AI-based application in medical research and care. What are the bottleneck to health data sharing in Switzerland? SPHN ha laid important foundation to enable and promote the responsible use of health data in research. However, the sharing of health data repeatedly face hurdle and bottlenecks. A recently published study now provides new insights. Events Key event and trainin in the realm of the Swiss Personalized Health Network 15 May 2024 | Bern 26 August 2024 | Zurich 27 - 28 August 2024 | Zrich 31 October 2024 | Bern ... ... Job opening / Register for Updates Communications Preferences Subscribe to all SPHN Technical Newsletter SPHN Webinars SPHN DCC Training Leave this field empty if you're human: Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Infrastructure building to enable nationwide use and exchange of health data for research An initiative of the Swiss Government The Swiss Personalized Health Network is a national initiative under the leadership of the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences (). In collaboration with the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics it contributes to the development, implementation and validation of coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland. SPHN ha adopted a federative approach by building upon and supporting existing data source and infrastructure across the country. To make health data interoperable and accessible for research, from key clinical, research-, research support institution and patient organization around the same table. The SPHN Management Office () together with the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group () coordinate the funding and drive the development of coordinated infrastructures, compatible data management systems, interoperability of data and governance of guidelines. While the MO is in charge of the administrative and the daily operation of the SPHN initiative, the PHI Group is in charge of the SPHN Data Coordination Center () and the network project, a national IT infrastructure backbone, to enable nationwide health-data exchange for research. BioMedIT provides researcher all over Switzerland with access to a secure and protected computing environment for analysis of sensitive data without compromising data privacy. National, scalable and sustainable. Key in the pioneering implementation and coordination of the national infrastructure is the voluntary contribution of the and the SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) . Members of these advisory- and working group are all national and international expert in a key focus area, such a clinical and molecular medicine, semantics, bioinformatics, technolomics, information technology, IT security and interoperability, data science, ethic and law. See the . Read the . News Change and continuity in the DCC leadership Katrin Crameri, Director of the DCC and Group Leader of SIBs Personalized Health Informatics Group will be handing the rein of the DCC to Thomas Geiger, starting from 1st June on an ad interim basis. Katrin will take over the co-lead for DigiSant and the Digital Transformation Division of FOPH. Data for Health symposium: Registration now open! SPHN and PHRT are pleased to invite you to the upcoming symposium Data for Health: Joining Forces for a Swiss Health Research Data Ecosystem on 31 October 2024at the Kursaal, Bern. Registration is now open. Nominations open for the National ORD Prize The Academies of Sciences Switzerland have opened the nomination for the National Prize for Open Research Data (ORD prize). For the first time, the jury defined a new focus area on Collaborative and/or interdisciplinary reuse of research data. Applications are open until 31 July 2024. Swiss Personalized Health Network: Short Report 2023 In 2023, the NSB published it report on the continuation of the SPHN infrastructure from 2025 onwards. How to successfully operationalize the future SPHN-DCC ha been a key focus over the past year. Read more about SPHNs achievement in 2023 in our latest SPHN Short Report. A solid foundation for AI through SPHN semantic interoperability effort Integrating AI into healthcare and research hold immense promise for the future. SPHN's semantic interoperability strategy set clear definition and utilizes open standards, facilitating the efficient provision of clinical data for AI-based application in medical research and care. What are the bottleneck to health data sharing in Switzerland? SPHN ha laid important foundation to enable and promote the responsible use of health data in research. However, the sharing of health data repeatedly face hurdle and bottlenecks. A recently published study now provides new insights. Events Key event and trainin in the realm of the Swiss Personalized Health Network 15 May 2024 | Bern 26 August 2024 | Zurich 27 - 28 August 2024 | Zrich 31 October 2024 | Bern ... ... Job opening / Register for Updates Communications Preferences Subscribe to all SPHN Technical Newsletter SPHN Webinars SPHN DCC Training Leave this field empty if you're human: Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Implementation Teams Collaboratively implementing the mandate of the Swiss Personalized Health Network The SPHN Management Office (MO) is hosted by the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences () The MO is in charge of the administrative and the daily operation of the initiative such a preparation of the meeting of the various boards, controlling, budgeting, and reporting. It coordinate the National Steering Board (), the NSB Ausschuss, the ELSI Advisory Group (), the Hospital IT Strategy Alignment Group (; in collaboration with the PHI Group), the National Advisory Board (; in collaboration with the PHI Group), and the International Advisory Board (). Contact: Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) | Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern | The Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) is a part of Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics The PHI Group is in charge of the SPHN Data Coordination Center (), and it mandate is to promote the development and implementation of nationwide standard for data semantics and exchange mechanism in order to meet the interoperability goal of the SPHN initiative. In addition, the PHI Group also coordinate the DCC . The PHI Group also manages the , providing researcher in Switzerland with access to a (high-performance) service infrastructure for collaborative analysis, and secure transfer of sensitive data. Contact: Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) | Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel | Dr. Thomas GeigerManaging DirectorSPHN MO Thomas support the in his function and is responsible for the day-to-day management and good governance of the SPHN initiative. Dr. Katrin Crameri, MPHDirectorSIB PHI Full of energy and enthusiasm, Katrin lead the activity and the relation with the . Owen AppletonSenior IT Services ManagerSIB PHI Owens experience in Service Management for research support the professional delivery of service to the SPHN community. Dr. Jan ArmidaScientific Coordinator FAIR Data Team | SIB PHI Jan brings all his passion and expertise to the SPHN task force to advance FAIRifcation of health-related data. Michaela EgliProject Manager, Ethical, Legal, Social Implications | SPHN MO Michaela support ELSI issue in SPHN by bringing in her expertise in philosophy of medicine and science. Patricia Fernndez PinillaTechnical Coordinator BioMedIT Team | SIB PHI Patricia brings in her technical background to help coordinate and support activity in the . Sergio GuarinoTechnical CoordinatorBioMedIT Team | SIB PHI Sergio brings his ICT and security background to help coordinate and support activity in the . Simone GuzziFull Stack Software DeveloperBioMedIT Team | SIB PHI Simone brings his passion and knowledge in software development to the BioMedIT Interoperability Working Group, evolving and expanding 's services. Dr. Petar HorkiScientific CoordinatorSIB PHI Petar brings his engineering know-how, clinical data experience and passion for biomedical informatics to advance the SPHN interoperability goals. Shubham KapoorLead BioMedIT Research IT Services & BioMedIT Team | SIB PHI Shubham brings in his Cloud, HPC & sensitive data processing expertise to architect s secure computing environments. Judit Kiss BlindLegal Officer, Ethical, Legal, Social Implications | SIB PHI Dr. Julia MaurerTeam Lead Ethical, Legal, Social Implications | SIB PHI Julia us her experience and expertise using health-related data a a clinical researcher, to support/promote the ethical and legal question in SPHN and BioMedIT. Dr. Gaudenz MetzgerScientific CoordinatorSPHN MO | Maternity Cover Gaudenz us his scientific background and organizational skill to communicate and coordinate operational SPHN activities. Michael Mller-BreckenridgeOperations OfficerSIB PHI Michael's experience in administration, management and communication is all put to good use in support of PHI's diverse portfolio of activities. Dr. sc. ETH Sabine sterleLead Semantic Interoperability Strategy & FAIR Data Team | SIB PHI Sabine oversees and manages the PHI portfolio and related activity towards achieving the SPHN FAIRIfication goals. Christine RemundProject administration specialistSPHN MO Christine us her accounting and organizational expertise to support the various MO activity and to manage the financial aspect of the initiative. Dr. Liselotte SelterScientific CoordinatorSPHN MO Liselotte us her scientific background and organizational skill to communicate and coordinate operational SPHN activities. Dr. Vasundra TourScientific CoordinatorFAIR Data Team | SIB PHI Vasundra brings her expertise to implement RDF technology to enhance the FAIRness of health-related data. Deepak UnniScientific CoordinatorFAIR Data Team | SIB PHI Deepak brings his experience working with semantic web technologies, building knowledge graphs, and implementation of FAIR data principle to augment the semantics and interoperability goal of SPHN. Dr. Sarah VermijScientific CoordinatorSPHN MO Sarah us her scientific background and organizational skill to communicate and coordinate operational SPHN activities. Dr. Harald WitteSenior Clinical Data SpecialistFAIR Data Team | SIB PHI Harald brings his expertise in research and clinical data science to advance the SPHN interoperability goal and semantic strategy. Contributors from SIB Legal funded through SPHN Mathilde Heusghem, Legal Officer, Contributors a permanent consultant Philip Krauss, FAIR Data Team, Roger Mathis, FAIR Data Team, Christian Ribeaud, BioMedIT Team, Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle News News Stay up-to-date on all news and publication from the SPHN Management Office and the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI). May 6, 2024 06.05.2024 After 5 year a Director of the SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) and Group Leader of the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group, Dr. ... Mar 26, 2024 26 March 2024 The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) into health research and care promise many advance for the future. At the technical level, ... Mar 14, 2024 The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) initiative coordinate the development of infrastructure for the responsible use of health-related data in research throughout Switzerland. The ... Mar 6, 2024 Over the past eight years, the collaborative effort of the Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) initiative and the Personalized Health & Related Technologies (PHRT) ... Feb 9, 2024 Why do we need an initiative that put effort in the creation of infrastructure that enable the use of health data, particularly from routine ... Jan 16, 2024 The SPHN Semantic Interoperability Framework provides a common language, guideline a well a tool required to gather health data for research in a FAIR ... Jan 9, 2024 09.01.2024 The research concept Health defines the Confederation's research activity and priodities in the filed of health for the year 2025-28. The use of ... Dec 15, 2023 The SPHNInternational Advisory Board (IAB) ha been involved in the evolution of the initiative since the very beginning. With the exception of the time ... Dec 7, 2023 In comparison to other countries, Switzerland ha a very good healthcare system and is known a one of the strongest location for research and ... Oct 19, 2023 SPHN Connector: Public release of our open-source tool We are happy to announce the public release of the SPHN Connector version 1.3.0 - a ... Oct 12, 2023 Download Factsheet 2023 The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) coordinate the development of an infrastructure for the responsible use of health-related data for research ... Oct 2, 2023 Effy Vayena ha been a dedicated contributor to the SPHN initiative from it inception. As chair of the ELSI Advisory Group (ELSIag) E. Vayena ... Sep 19, 2023 19 September 2023 Access theonline version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox. Communications Preferences ... Sep 19, 2023 The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) initiative coordinate the development of infrastructure for the responsible use of health-related data in research throughout Switzerland. The ... Jul 11, 2023 The Swiss Personalized Health Network and it partner initiative Personalized Health and Related Technologies(PHRT) from the ETH Domain have reached a major milestone for ... Jun 28, 2023 Translated from the Press Release (download) by: Medical Informatics Initiative Support structure - Office of the National Steering Committee c/o TMF e. V. ... Jun 13, 2023 In 2017, the SPHN initiative wa launched on behalf of the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI) and the Federal Office of ... Jun 1, 2023 31 May 2023 Access the online version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox. Communications ... May 2, 2023 The SPHN Semantic Interoperability Framework build a complete ecosystem around Semantic Web technology to make health-related data FAIR. From an Excel-based SPHN Dataset, SPHN ... Mar 20, 2023 20 March 2023 Access the online version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox. Communications ... Mar 20, 2023 By: Deepak Unni, Scientific Coordinator, SIB PHI Group The use of Semantic Web technology for organizing knowledge ha had increasing adoption in recent years. ... Mar 20, 2023 Today mark a significant achievement for the Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) with the announcement of the 2023 version (2023.2) of the SPHN Semantic ... Nov 23, 2022 Two type of Demonstrator project are supported: On the one hand, project that test the practical application of SPHN infrastructure component in medical research ... Sep 14, 2022 Access theonline version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox Communications Preferences Subscribe to all ... Jul 21, 2022 SPHN Quality Control Tools 21.07.2022 Ensuring data quality is of the utmost importance for personalized health research. Validation of data can be a cumbersome ... Jun 7, 2022 07.06.2022 What doe SPHN do for researchers? The new SPHN Factsheet ha the answers. Take a lookat the SPHN infrastructures, tool and service that ... Jun 2, 2022 Today, SPHN release the 2022.1 edition of the SPHN Semantic Interoperability Framework package including the SPHN Dataset (Pillar 1) and the SPHN RDF schema ... May 31, 2022 Access the online version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox Communications Preferences Subscribe to ... May 25, 2022 In 2021, SPHN and PHRT jointly launched the call for "National Data Streams" (NDS). After a two-step evaluation procedure, 4 NDS project have been ... May 20, 2022 Guidance on how to de-identify health-related data in compliance with Swiss legislation 20.05.22 The de-identification of health-related data postulate one essential approach to protect ... May 17, 2022 SPHN ha launched it call for "Demonstrator" projects. These project aim to demonstrate the added value of SPHN data resource and infrastructure element for ... May 11, 2022 The Swiss Federal Council want to enable research to make better use of health data Infrastructures built and insight gained by SPHN are central ... Apr 29, 2022 The 2nd Personalized Health Day aim to make the achievement of SPHN and the ETH Strategic Focus Area Personalized Health and Related Technologies (PHRT) ... Apr 6, 2022 Access the online version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox Communications Preferences Subscribe to ... Mar 25, 2022 Demonstrator project aim to demonstrate the added value of the SPHN data resource and infrastructure element for data-driven personalized health research, clinical and public ... Mar 3, 2022 To promote findability of cohort data, SPHN launch an additional call for letter of intent for Swiss cohort study interested in join the Maelstrom ... Feb 21, 2022 Successful approach for personalised medicine are becoming a reality. To show this, the International Consortium for Personalized Medicine (ICPerMed) feature best practice examples. These ... Jan 10, 2022 Since 2017 SPHN is full member of the International Consortium for Personalized Medicine (ICPerMed). Recently, ICPerMed launched it fourth Recognition to honour, encourage, promote ... Jan 3, 2022 Access the online version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox Communications Preferences Subscribe to ... Dec 21, 2021 A solid data management plan over the entire project life cycle is essential for the development of FAIR research data. This includes data collection ... Dec 15, 2021 SPHN is building a dynamic, scalable network of data provider to leverage the potential of health-related data for the benefit of society. Data generated ... Nov 25, 2021 At the beginning of 2018, SPHN and the five university hospital signed collaboration agreement for building interoperable clinical data management systems. Thereby, the foundation ... Nov 16, 2021 Access the online version of the SPHN Technical Newsletter here. Subscribe to receive future newsletter directly in your inbox Communications Preferences Subscribe to ... Nov 16, 2021 The SPHN Federated Query System is online! Information retrieval system enabling researcher to query for specific clinical information of patient have so far been ... Oct 15, 2021 With the conclusion of the first funding phase 2017-2020 and the onset of phase II (2021-2024), SPHN had reached a critical turning point: Emphasized ... Oct 6, 2021 SPHN announces the comprehensive release of the SPHN FAIR Data Ecosystem, summarized in our recent preprint*. A flexible graph-based schema for data representation is ... Oct 1, 2021 Swiss cohort house high-quality and cost-intensive data collection which see their value often hindered by a lack of visibility. As part of it commitment ... Sep 30, 2021 Prof. Antoine Geissbhler is the new Chair of the National Advisory Board (NAB) of SPHN, succeeding Prof. Torsten Schwede. To strengthen the expertise of ... Sep 10, 2021 Standards such a SNOMED CT, LOINC, ICD-10 and ATC provide the foundation for a common medical language required to semantically represent health data. While ... Aug 10, 2021 In 2017, the Swiss Confederation decided to fund the BioMedIT network project, a integral part of SPHN. As a project ofSIBSwiss Institute of Bioinformatics, ... Jun 1, 2021 On the road towards establishing a Swiss personalized health ecosystem, SPHN and PHRT have launched a joint call for proposal for National Data Streams ... May 28, 2021 Switzerland ha a long tradition of high-quality cohort study collecting a large variety of health-related data. In order to exploit their full potential, the ... May 20, 2021 SPHN gladly announces the new release of the SPHN Semantic Interoperability Framework including the SPHN Dataset (Pillar 1) and the SPHN RDF schema (Pillar ... May 18, 2021 SPHN and PHRT will launch the long-awaited Call for National Data Streams on 1 June 2021. Stay tuned all information will be released ... Apr 20, 2021 The National Advisory Board (NAB) is a consulting body of the Swiss Personalized Health Network Initiative (SPHN) with the following mandate: Infrastructure Roadmap: Provide ... Mar 11, 2021 The focus of this year's first SAMS Bulletin is dedicated to SPHN. As the first SPHN funding period 2017-2020 ha come to an end, ... Mar 1, 2021 Thomas Geiger is the new Managing Director of SPHN a of 1 March 2021, after an ad interim period during which the Management Office ... Feb 1, 2021 The report of the National Steering Board, published in the Swiss Academies Reports series, present the many infrastructures, technology and method that SPHN and ... Jan 27, 2021 SPHN is featured in edition 102(4) of the Bulletin de mdecins suisses; "Over the last twenty years, personalized medicine ha established itself a a ... Dec 14, 2020 The Confederation renews the mandate of the Swiss Academies of Medical Sciences (SAMS) and the SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics for a second SPHN ... Dec 2, 2020 The contractual architecture for a collaborative use of health-related data depends on the project specification and responsibility of the party involved. The new, modular ... Nov 13, 2020 Find out about the current status of the initiative, it perspective and goal for the next funding period, and it impact on society - ... Oct 20, 2020 SPHN wa represented at the 8th Plenary of GA4GH with a poster highlighting the FAIRification of Health Genomics Data in Switzerland. The 8th Plenary ... Aug 11, 2020 The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) wa launched in 2016 with the aim of facilitating the use and exchange of health data for research. ... Jun 30, 2020 When clinical data from different source are combined for research projects, interoperability is key: the meaning of data ha to be interpretable for human ... May 19, 2020 The ELSI Advisory Group ha developed guidance for 'Reporting Actionable Genetic Findings to Research Participants'. The document contains recommendation that suggest mechanism to support ... May 16, 2020 Article by Dr. Katrin Crameri inMIRACUM Journal #3, March 2020 (translation of the original German text) In tomorrow's digital, learning healthcare system, healthcare and ... Apr 21, 2020 Following an overall review of the initiative in 2019, the National Steering Board (NSB) of SPHN decided to create a National Advisory Board (NAB) ... Mar 17, 2020 The SPHN Management Office and the Personalized Health Informatics group are working from home until further notice. You can contact our collaborator by email. ... Mar 11, 2020 Between September and December 2019, SPHN reported and illustrated the activity of the last two years. In the SPHN fact-sheet, an overview of the ... Jan 16, 2020 Revamped in January 2020, the SPHN Website now function a a one-stop-shop for all stakeholder and contributor in the realm of the Swiss Personalized ... Dec 20, 2019 December 2019 As per the Rules of Procedure and it mandate, the International Advisory Board (IAB) of SPHN ha to provide a review on ... Apr 10, 2019 The new Hospital IT Working Group of the DCC brings together representative of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) department of the five University ... Apr 4, 2019 On 1 March 2019, Katrin Crameri took over the leadership of the Personalized Health Informatics (PHI) Group responsible for the Data Coordination Center of ... Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Funding Funding & Event sponsoring For thefirst period 2017-2020,the Swiss Government ha allocated CHF 68 million to SPHN of which CHF 50 Mio were under the responsibility of the SPHN National Steering Board () and theSwiss Academy of Medical Sciences (), based on the Funding Principles and Funding Regulations. The remaining fund were dedicated to the project, managed by . In 2021, the Swiss Government renewed the mandate of the and thefora second SPHN funding period for 2021 to 2024. From a total budget of CHF 66.9 Mio, CHF 50 Mio are again under the responsibility of theNSBand SAMS and the remainder is dedicated to. SPHN funding is allocated to support the project type described below and to event sponsoring. KeyDocuments Project funding SPHN ha chosen a bottom-up and a top-down approach to fund project that contribute to makehealth-related data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland. Through top-down infrastructure implementation projects, SPHN ensuressustainable data availability for secondary usage. Through bottom-up competitive call for proposals, project are funded that drive the infrastructure development, test it utility and enable high-end research in personalized health. Description:Projects that are devoted to building a progressive shareable data system enabling nationwide interoperability of molecular and clinical patient data. More information about the Collaboration Agreements, HospFAIR, Federated Query System, TI4Health, Swiss Federated Genomics Network and the Swiss Cohort Consortium on Maelstrom can be found . Funding scheme:top-down funding Description: National Data Streamsare multidisciplinary consortial research infrastructure (platforms) involving a national network of clinical and science/engineering partners. Funding scheme: Call for proposal Description: Demonstrator projectsdemonstrate the added value of the SPHN data resource and infrastructure element for data-driven personalized health research, clinical and public health research, and clinical use. Funding scheme: Call for proposal Description:Driver project are based in a concrete research field (e.g. oncology, immunology) and aim to push the development of clinical data management system in all University Hospitals by testing data interoperability and data sharing principle within the whole network. Funding scheme:Call for Proposals Description:Projects that thrive to develop and test new technologies, method and infrastructure for personalized health related research in connection with infrastructure implementation. Funding scheme:Call for Proposals More information Event Sponsoring As per SPHN's Funding Regulations, sponsoring can only be provided to Swiss higher education institution (ETH-Domain, Universities, Universities of Applied Sciences) and University Hospitals, a well a other research institution recognized by SERI. SPHN event sponsorship is designed to primarily (objectives are cumulative): Increase visibility of the SPHN initiative a a whole; Inform the community on infrastructure development and research activity in the field of Personalized Health, while breaking existing silo between different research areas; Disseminate information about existing or newly built infrastructure, that will contribute to the goal of SPHN on reaching interoperability of health-related data at the national level. Requests for SPHN event sponsorship is subject to the following criteria: Topic: The conference program ha a strong relevance to the activity and goal of SPHN and contributes to breaking silo among the different discipline of Personalized Health research; Location: The event (conference, workshop, roundtable, summer school, etc.) is organized and take place in Switzerland; Amount requested from SPHN: The SPHN conference sponsorship can either be a fixed lump sum (max. CHF 5000.-) or a deficit guarantee (max. CHF 20000.-); Budget: The budget indicates all source of funding (planned, requested or allocated) a well a anticipated expenses. The conference budget shall not aim at creating a profit for the parent organization; Matching financial support: the matching financial support from the applicant shall be at least equal or greater than (>=50%) the amount requested from SPHN; Acknowledgment: SPHN is acknowledged a sponsor in conference presentations/proceedings; Terms and conditions: The sponsorship condition are contractually stipulated. In the case of a deficit guarantee, the sponsored party shall submit a financial report with detail on the actuals cost to SPHN. In case the event close on a surplus (positive balance), the sponsor shall be reimbursed proportionally to their contributions. Submission: Applications are reviewed 3-4 time per year and should be submitted no later than 2 month before the event. Related documents: How to submit an event sponsoring request? Applications are reviewed 3-4 time per year and should be submitted nolater than 2 month before the event. Applications should be made using the and submitted by E-mail to Sponsoring request are formally checked by the SPHN Management Office and discussed by the NSB Ausschuss. The decision is communicated to the applicant in the form of a ruling/contract. NSB Ausschuss meeting 2024 Thursday 25 January 2024 Thursday 18 April 2024 Thursday 22 August 2024 Thursday 24 October 2024 Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Ongoing project Ongoing project Implementation project The SPHN implementation project aim at developing the core infrastructure which is required to make health-related data FAIR* at the national level. Using a top-down funding approach, the following implementation project are currently ongoing: More information on the collaboration agreement with the five Swiss university hospital can be found . More information about the project conducted by theEthical, Legal and Social Implications advisory group () can be found . HospFAIR aim at improving quality of shared data andsystematizing data standardization and extraction. It call to enhance and streamline the various processesin the university hospitals, which currently can represent a bottleneck for data interoperability and datadelivery, through agile and iterative data production cycles. Final outcome of HospFAIR are readilydeliverable data(sets) of high-quality (according to the ) thatare efficiently available, because their production pipeline is systemically implemented at the CDW ofthe university hospitals. More information about HospFAIR, it implementation and the timeline can be found . Three SPHN Working Groups (WG) are involved in the implementation of HospFAIR: WG Data Standards and Quality Control WG IT Architecture WG RDF More information about the composition of the WGs can be found . The SPHN Connector is a tool developed a part of the SPHN IT architecture strategy led by USZ to facilitate the creation of valid SPHN-compliant graph data based on relational, semantically described data in hospital data platforms. The Connector is an integral part of the SPHN ecosystem tool stack and service for FAIR data. It interface with the DCC Terminology Service, which provides external terminology such a SNOMED CT, LOINC, and others in a compatible RDF format, and with the SPHN Schema Forge, which generates a project schema, validation rules, and statistical query from a simple project-specific input. The SPHN tool and service are listed . Further information on the SPHN connector will follow soon. The SPHN Federated Query System (FQS) allows to search for fully anonymized clinical information across all five Swiss university hospitals, while allowing the hospital to retain full control over their data for feasibility assessments. Researchers can ass whether and where patient or patient data potentially suitable for a specific research question exist at one or several of the Swiss university hospitals. The is involved in the local implementation of the FQS. More information on the FQS can be found . Thecontributed metadata from Swiss population-based and disease-specific cohort to the internationally renowned Maelstrom Catalog to increase their discoverability and usability in national and international research projects. More information about the SPHN Cohort Consortium on Maelstrom can be found . The use of genomic data in healthcare is increasing and genome analysis will soon be considered an integral part of advanced healthcare systems. To fully benefit from emerging opportunity in this area, it is crucial to rapidly initiate coordinated efforts: to collect data and knowledge about the genetic structure of the Swiss population; to develop a streamlined infrastructure supporting collaborative genomic research; to provide researcher and clinician with secure and efficient access to genomic information. In 2022, SPHN launched the Swiss Federated Genomics Network (SFGN)asa national genomic strategy to facilitate genomics research and to accelerate the integration of genomics into healthcare e.g. by collecting data and knowledge about the genetic structure of the Swiss population. The project is run in close collaboration with the of the ETH Domain, the , the and the . It build on two complementary pillars: an infrastructure backbone to support and coordinate genomic data generation, processing, and exchange in a scalable and sustainable manner, including a FAIR data repository allowing reuse of data, and a national reference genomic dataset (Genome of Switzerland) to demonstrate the feasibility of genome data production and sharing at scale. TI4Health is a secure federated discovery and analytics platform that enables a researcher or clinician to securely perform exploratory query (SQL-like query for simple statistics) through a user-friendly graphical interface. By relying on a combination of state-of-the-art technology for information security such a homomorphic encryption, secure multi-party computation and differential privacy, TI4Health ensures that: patient individual-level data never leave the security perimeter of each clinical site, hence the hospital remain in full control of their patient data, patient individual-level data are protected against illegitimate access by unauthorized people, aggregate-level data are protected also while in use, a they remain encrypted through the whole process, no single authority ha to be trusted for the security of the data, and re-identification risk are minimized. The system wa originally developed a part of the SPHN- and PHRT-funded project (Data Protection in Personalized Health) and . Currently, it ha been industrialized and is now further developed by the company . Using two pilot projects, the SPHN DCC is investigating and documenting the deployment and use of TI4Health (Tune Insight for Health) in specific use-cases in a real-world setting. In order to make the best possible use of synergy and to avoid placing additional workload on the participating party (i.e. hospital with regard to data provision and the MedCo/TI4Health development team), the pilot are carried out within the framework of two SPHN project the SPHN Driver Project and the SPHN Infrastructure Development Project . *The FAIR principle require that data areFindable,Accessible,Interoperable, andReusable. Sensitive health data cannot be openly accessible to third parties, but taking regulatory requirement into account, the data should be FAIR - also with reproducibility and sustainability in mind. The main goal of the FAIR principle is the optimal preparation of research data for reuse by human and machine Completed project Bottom-up funded project For more information about the completed Infrastructure development and Driver projects, which were funded in the frame of the Calls for proposal 2017 and 2018, please click . Quicklinks National Data Stream project Each National Data Stream (NDS) project comprises a Switzerland-wide multidisciplinary consortium that invests in the development of a sustainable data infrastructure for high-end data-driven and personalized health research. NDS will constitute central pillar of the SPHN health data ecosystem and the . In the long term, they shall serve a model and crystallization point for future research program and clinical application of personalized health. NDS include clinical, analytical (such a multi-omics) and other data that will be enriched and made available to the research community.In addition, all NDS include patient and public involvement (PPI) in their projects. Personalized, data-driven prediction and assessment of infection-related outcome in Swiss ICUs (IICU) Main PIs: & Duration: 01.09.2022 - 31.08.2025 (36 months)Award: CHF 5 Mio Swiss Personalized Oncology National Data Stream (SPO-NDS) Main PIs: & Duration: 01.09.2022 - 31.08.2025 (36 months)Award: CHF 5 Mio Pediatric personalized research network Switzerland (SwissPedHealth) a Joint Pediatric National Data Stream Main PIs: & Duration: 01.09.2022 - 31.08.2025 (36 months)Award: CHF 5 Mio LUCID, Low Value of Care in Hospitalized Patients, a National Data Stream on Quality of Care in Swiss university hospital Main PIs: & Duration: 01.09.2022 - 31.08.2025 (36 months)Award: CHF 5 Mio Demonstrator project Demonstrator projectsaim to demonstrate the added value of SPHN data resource and infrastructure element for data-driven personalized health research, clinical and public health research, and clinical use. Two type of project are supported: Projects that test the practical application of SPHN infrastructure component in medical research and/or expand their use in the network. Projects that demonstrate the added value of SPHN-compliant data resource from university hospital for personalized health research. The following 11 project will start their work in 2023. The lay summary will be available upon project start (to be confirmed). SwissPedDW - Swiss Pediatric Data Warehouse Main PI: (University Childrens Hospital Zurich, Kispi) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.09-2024Award: CHF 385'700 Accelerating detection of neonatal sepsis (ADONIS): a machine learning-based approach Main PI: (CHUV) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.09.2024Award: CHF 489'150 RDeID: Risk-based de-identification platform for health-related data Main PI: (CHUV) Duration: 01.03.2023-31.08.2024Award: CHF 396'000 Therapy-related myeloid neoplasm after cytotoxic treatment Main PI: (CHUV) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.09-2024Award: 260'000 Cohort demonstrator: Full integration of a national cohort into the SPHN infrastructure Main PI: (USB) Duration: 01.06.2023-31.05.2024Award: CHF 216'588 EVIGAITCP Main PI: (University Childrens Hospital Basel, UKBB) Duration: 01.03.2023-31.08.2024Award: CHF 248'780 SwissPedHealth PReparing PERsonalizEd PEdiatRic PRimaRy caRE (PREPP) Main PI: (University Childrens Hospital Basel, UKBB) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.09.2024Award: CHF 490'221 Using routine health care data to facilitate clinical cohort study (SPHN-SPAC) Main PI: (University of Bern) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.09.2024Award: CHF 406'250 SNOW: Swiss Network of Wearables Main PI: (CHUV) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.09.2024Award: CHF 500'000 INFRA: INFection Radar Main PI: (Inselspital) Duration: 01.03.2023-31.08.2024Award: CHF 495'000 Smart SNOMED Search for SPHN (S4) Main PI: (HUG/UniGE) Duration: 01.04.2023-30.9.2024Award: CHF 426'000 Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Grant Documents and Guidelines Grant Documents and Guidelines This page contains document and information for SPHN grantee from the 2017-2018 call for proposal a well a for SPHN grantee from the Call for Demonstrator projects. For document and information for National Data Streams grantees, . 1. Getting Started : please read the Guidelines carefully a well a the condition outlined in the Decision letter. Conditions outlined in the Decision letter: if the submission of a revised budget wa requested, please resubmit Part C and the Excel sheet. If the revision of the budget impact the content of the proposal, please resubmit Part B a well. : prior to the release of funds, a lay summary need to be submitted in English and one of the national language of Switzerland. The lay summary will be published on the SPHN website. Start date: please note that the project should start no later than 12 month after the date of the approval letter for Driver project and no later than 01.04.2023 for Demonstrator projects. The start date should start at a beginning of a month. : Once all requirement have been met, please fill in and return a signed Fund Release Form to the info@sphn.ch. Alternatively, your institution can also issue an invoice. 2. Annual Reporting The reporting requirement and responsibilites are described in the . All SPHN funded project must submit an activity report and a financial report on a regular basis. 2.1 Activity Report 2.2 Financial Report A project specific financial report file is provided by the Management Office to each Main Applicant. 3. Other document Legal Agreements (such a Data Transfer and Use Agreements). are available on the SBP website. Cost-neutral extension Projects can be extended for a maximum duration of 12 month for Driver projects. Demonstrator project can be extended until 31.03.2025. As an update on the status of the project is requested, it is better to submit the extension at the same time a the reporting is due. If this is not possible, it should be submitted a soon a possible given that the NSB Ausschuss only meet 4 time per year. SPHN endorsement element A visual SPHN endorsement element can be added to each SPHN funded project logo to enhance/position the SPHN connection and visibility of your research projects. This is not mandatory but available for SPHN funded projects. | Key Reference Documents Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Legal Agreement Templates (DTUA) Legal Agreement Templates Contractual architecture The contractual architecture for a collaborative use of health-related data depends on the project specification and responsibility of participating parties, and is part of the legal and regulatory framework. The agreement template proposed here establish the contractual framework necessary to conduct a multicenter research project involving the exchange of health-related data. Once put together, these agreement settle the important issue that need to be legally addressed (permitted use and ownership of data, publications, intellectual property and liability, etc.) and define the rights, obligation and responsibility of all party involved (e.g., Investigator, Data Provider, Data Recipient, Processor, etc.). The relevant term used on this page are explained in the . Choosing the right legal agreement Please use the information below to find out about the different legal agreement necessary to establish research consortia, and data transfer and use in collaborative research projects. Please contact the Personalized Health Informatics (PHI) Group for guidance and support or watch the presentation "". A legal agreement postulate a solid basis for a successful collaboration within a multicenter research project and need to be submitted with the other project-specific document when applying for an ethic approval. Depending on the configuration of the project, three type of agreement should be considered: Consortium Agreement (CA): A multicenter research project requires a framework research agreement between the different institution involved, generally called a "Consortium Agreement". It regulates the general principle of collaboration between the party to the research project (allocation of work, rule for publication and intellectual property, financial conditions, governance, etc.). Parties involved: Principal Investigators' home institution having filed the research project with the ethic commission. Data Transfer and Use Agreement (DTUA): The transfer and use of health-related data processed within the framework of the research project is generally subject to a separate agreement, the DTUA. It regulates the condition under which a "Provider" (e.g. a hospital) agrees to disclose personal data to a "Recipient" (e.g. a university). The Provider and the Recipient jointly determine the purpose of the processing within the framework of the research project. They both assume the role of "Data Controller" (as opposed to the role of "Data Processor" described below). Recipients are obliged to ensure appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the Data. Parties involved: The institution that are required to exchange data for the project. Data Transfer and Processing Agreement (DTPA): The Controllers may decide to subcontract the secure transfer and hosting of the data to a third party, for example to one or more BioMedIT node(s) (see description of the BioMedIT network below). The subcontractor act according to the instruction of the Controllers, and therefore act a "Processor". The relationship between Controllers and Processor is regulated in a specific contract, the DTPA, which precisely regulates the data access rule and security requirement to ensure appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the Data. Parties involved: The party to the DTUA and the institution(s) hosting for example the BioMedIT node(s). For some project it might be sufficient to use a DTUA with an integrated DTPA only, for example if there is already a signed CA or equivalent for the project. If there is only the need to cover term and condition for the use of a processing infrastructure in addition to an existing Data Transfer and Use Agreement, such a the BioMedIT node(s), a stand-alone DTPA might be the easiest solution. For multi-center project which are not part of the SPHN initiative and not using the BioMedIT infrastructure, a DTUA without processor (BioMedIT node) might be used. The BioMedIT node were established to ensure a secure data flow and access within the project and build a Swiss secured IT network. In a research project that requires data exchange, the BioMedIT node act a processor to host and make available the data on behalf of the controller (parties to the DTUA). There are three node established: in Basel, operated by the University of Basel in Lausanne, operated by the University of Lausanne and SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics in Zurich, operated by ETH Zurich Depending on participating parties, the project may use a single node or multiple node (see also Data flow and Data access scheme of the research project). The guidance chart in Table 1 below show which legal agreement is recommended to create an acceptable legal architecture for a research project depending on the availability of already signed commitments. PHI can provide essential help in choosing the right document and creating a first draft according to the need of the respective institutional legal departments. Table 1: Guidance chart for legal agreement based on the status of available legal document of a research project Overview of available legal agreement template and their content The three type of agreement can be included in a single agreement (e.g.: CA+DTUA+CA; see template below). When the party enter into a CA for the purpose of exchanging data and wish to use a subcontractor for data processing the CA integrates a DTUA and DTPA. Specifies the party collaboration, their right and obligation according to project plan and funding decision Describes governance structure between project leader, sponsor, investigator and defines executive and scientific board Regulates financial conditions, confidentiality, intellectual property, publications, exit and further warranty Specifies the party collaboration, their right and obligation according to project plan and funding decision Describes governance structure between project leader, sponsor, investigator and defines executive and scientific board Regulates financial conditions, confidentiality, intellectual property, publications, exit and further warranty Reflects the agreement between the party regarding the term governing the processing, security and sharing of data under the Consortium Agreement Describes term and condition for providing data by the provider, who is the controller of the data, to recipient, who wish to conduct the research project. It specifies: Data provision defined in the DTPA with more than one BioMedIT node Data processing Liability and third party right Miscellaneous items, such a force majeure Security requirement for recipient and external processor ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. N.b. You may need to divide the document for signature purposes, if you do not want to share potentially confidential information with all party (e.g. in the consortium agreement) Specifies the party collaboration, their right and obligation according to project plan and funding decision Describes governance structure between project leader, sponsor, investigator and defines executive and scientific board Regulates financial conditions, confidentiality, intellectual property, publications, exit and further warranty Reflects the agreement between the party regarding the term governing the processing, security and sharing of data under the Consortium Agreement Describes term and condition for providing data by the provider, who is the controller of the data, to recipient, who wish to conduct the research project. It specifies: Data provision defined in the DTPA with one BioMedIT node Data processing Liability and third party right Miscellaneous items, such a force majeure Security requirement for recipient and external processor ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. N.b. You may need to divide the document for signature purposes, if you do not want to share potentially confidential information with all party (e.g. in the consortium agreement) Describes term and condition for providing data by the provider, who is the controller of the data, to recipient, who wish to conduct the research project. It specifies: Data provision defined in the DTPA with more than one BioMedIT node Data processing Liability and third party right Miscellaneous items, such a force majeure Security requirement for recipient and external processor ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. Describes term and condition for providing data by the provider, who is the controller of the data, to recipient, who wish to conduct the research project. It specifies: Data provision defined in the DTPA with one BioMedIT node Data processing Liability and third party right Miscellaneous items, such a force majeure Security requirement for recipient and external processor ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. Describes term and condition between providers, recipients, and more than one BioMedIT Node. It specifies: provided service a follows: hosting of the Data on the BioMedIT Nodes transferring Data from the provider to the recipient other processing activity a required Representations and warranty Information, assistance, notification Data ownership, intellectual property, confidentiality Liability and termination Security requirement for external processor ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. Template in revision - please for support. Describes term and condition for providing data by the provider, who is the controller of the data, to recipient, who wish to conduct the research project. It specifies: provided service a follows: hosting of the Data on the BioMedIT Node transferring Data from the provider to the recipient other processing activity a requiret Representations and warranty Information, assistance, notification Data ownership, intellectual property, confidentiality Liability and termination Security requirement for external processor ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. Describes term and condition for providing data by the provider, who is the controller of the data, to recipient, who wish to conduct the research project. It specifies: Transfer and access rule for data Liability and third party right Miscellaneous items, such a force majeure Security requirement for recipient ensuring appropriate confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the system with regard to processing of the data. Detailed change to former document can be found : Data flow and Data access scheme of the research project The BioMedIT node provide a secure high performance compute and storage infrastructure, which can be jointly used by all Swiss Universities, research institutions, hospitals, and other interested partners. Depending on the affiliation, data are provided to a linked node, for example data from the University Hospital in Basel are sent to the sciCORE node. A complete overview is shown in Figure 1. Fig 1. The BioMedIT Network with three node established: sciCORE in Basel, operated by the University of Basel, SENSA in Lausanne, operated by UNIL and SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics and SIS in Zurich, operated by ETH Zurich Based on the participating institution and involved BioMedIT node(s), it is recommended to draw a scheme to visualize the data flow within the project. The data flow and access scheme, showed in Figures 2, aim to give an overview about the different role of participating parties. The scheme need to be adapted according the project consortium by assigning the role Provider and Recipient starting in the following way: Add all institution (parties) to the scheme Add all BioMedIT nodes, if applicable Specify data flow between data Provider and Recipient. Use grey dashed arrow between data Provider and Recipient to specify provided data (data flow). Use red color arrow to specify data access. According to the data flow and access scheme, it is possible to decide which combination of agreement suit best for the project (see DTUA guidance chart above). An example for multicenter research project using all three BioMedIT node is provided in Figure 2. Fig 2. Example of data flow to SENSA Figure 2 is an example of a data flow between participating institutions. The gray arrow describe data flow from the institution to the respective BioMedIT node. In this example the main node for data to be accessed is SENSA, which receives data from the other two nodes, sciCORE and SIS. All involved party will have access to the data on SENSA a shown by the orange arrows. Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Documents Documents To serve a a one-stop-shop for researcher we make sure to keep all SPHN relevant document archived, tagged and findable for your support. The filter table below will help you guide through your search query (governance, variables, guidelines, policies, etc). Please contact either or if you cannot find a specific document. The can be accessed in the header bar on top of the SPHN logo. Categories TagTitletag_one_hfilterHospital IThospital-itIT Securityit-securityData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityFrameworksframeworksFrameworksframeworksGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsPosition Paperposition-paperPosition Paperposition-paperFact-Sheetsfact-sheetsFact-Sheetsfact-sheetsEventseventsEventseventsGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesReportsreportsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsNewslettersnewslettersNewslettersnewslettersNewslettersnewslettersReportsreportsEventseventsEventseventsEventseventsEventseventsLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesLay summarieslay-summariesBackground Documentsbackground-documentsGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesLay summarieslay-summariesData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityReportsreportsGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesLay summarieslay-summariesBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityFrameworksframeworksBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsData interoperability, Fact-Sheetsdata-interoperability fact-sheetsReportsreportsData interoperability, Fact-Sheetsdata-interoperability fact-sheetsBackground Documents, Fact-Sheets, Reports, SPHN Reviewbackground-documents fact-sheets report sphn-reviewGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesReportsreportsBackground Documents, Peer-Reviewedbackground-documents peer-reviewedGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesReportsreportsBackground Documents, Newslettersbackground-documents newslettersData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsReportsreportsGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesBackground Documents, Reportsbackground-documents reportsFrameworksframeworksFrameworksframeworksData interoperability, FQSdata-interoperability fqsGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesData interoperability, FQS, Guidelines and Templatesdata-interoperability fqs guidelines-and-templatesFrameworks, Guidelines and Templatesframeworks guidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesFundingfundingData interoperability, Reportsdata-interoperability reportsData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityBackground Documentsbackground-documentsData interoperability, Frameworks, Guidelines and Templatesdata-interoperability framework guidelines-and-templatesReportsreportsData interoperability, Guidelines and Templatesdata-interoperability guidelines-and-templatesBackground Documents, Data interoperability, Fact-Sheets, FQSbackground-documents data-interoperability fact-sheets fqsData interoperabilitydata-interoperabilityBackground Documentsbackground-documentsBackground Documentsbackground-documentsEventseventsData interoperability, Fact-Sheetsdata-interoperability fact-sheetsPosterspostersPosterspostersData interoperability, Hospital IT, Postersdata-interoperability hospital-it postersData interoperability, Postersdata-interoperability postersIT Security, Postersit-security postersGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesFundingfundingReportsreportsPosterspostersGuidelines and Templatesguidelines-and-templatesIT Securityit-securityReportsreportsReportsreportsReportsreports Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle SPHN.ch Privacy Notice This document outline how the SPHN website capture and us personal data from visitor of the site. Any question or privacy concern should be sent to . Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Infrastructure building to enable nationwide use and exchange of health data for research An initiative of the Swiss Government The Swiss Personalized Health Network is a national initiative under the leadership of the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences (). In collaboration with the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics it contributes to the development, implementation and validation of coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland. SPHN ha adopted a federative approach by building upon and supporting existing data source and infrastructure across the country. To make health data interoperable and accessible for research, from key clinical, research-, research support institution and patient organization around the same table. The SPHN Management Office () together with the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group () coordinate the funding and drive the development of coordinated infrastructures, compatible data management systems, interoperability of data and governance of guidelines. While the MO is in charge of the administrative and the daily operation of the SPHN initiative, the PHI Group is in charge of the SPHN Data Coordination Center () and the network project, a national IT infrastructure backbone, to enable nationwide health-data exchange for research. BioMedIT provides researcher all over Switzerland with access to a secure and protected computing environment for analysis of sensitive data without compromising data privacy. National, scalable and sustainable. Key in the pioneering implementation and coordination of the national infrastructure is the voluntary contribution of the and the SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) . Members of these advisory- and working group are all national and international expert in a key focus area, such a clinical and molecular medicine, semantics, bioinformatics, technolomics, information technology, IT security and interoperability, data science, ethic and law. See the . Read the . News Change and continuity in the DCC leadership Katrin Crameri, Director of the DCC and Group Leader of SIBs Personalized Health Informatics Group will be handing the rein of the DCC to Thomas Geiger, starting from 1st June on an ad interim basis. Katrin will take over the co-lead for DigiSant and the Digital Transformation Division of FOPH. Data for Health symposium: Registration now open! SPHN and PHRT are pleased to invite you to the upcoming symposium Data for Health: Joining Forces for a Swiss Health Research Data Ecosystem on 31 October 2024at the Kursaal, Bern. Registration is now open. Nominations open for the National ORD Prize The Academies of Sciences Switzerland have opened the nomination for the National Prize for Open Research Data (ORD prize). For the first time, the jury defined a new focus area on Collaborative and/or interdisciplinary reuse of research data. Applications are open until 31 July 2024. Swiss Personalized Health Network: Short Report 2023 In 2023, the NSB published it report on the continuation of the SPHN infrastructure from 2025 onwards. How to successfully operationalize the future SPHN-DCC ha been a key focus over the past year. Read more about SPHNs achievement in 2023 in our latest SPHN Short Report. A solid foundation for AI through SPHN semantic interoperability effort Integrating AI into healthcare and research hold immense promise for the future. SPHN's semantic interoperability strategy set clear definition and utilizes open standards, facilitating the efficient provision of clinical data for AI-based application in medical research and care. What are the bottleneck to health data sharing in Switzerland? SPHN ha laid important foundation to enable and promote the responsible use of health data in research. However, the sharing of health data repeatedly face hurdle and bottlenecks. A recently published study now provides new insights. Events Key event and trainin in the realm of the Swiss Personalized Health Network 15 May 2024 | Bern 26 August 2024 | Zurich 27 - 28 August 2024 | Zrich 31 October 2024 | Bern ... ... Job opening / Register for Updates Communications Preferences Subscribe to all SPHN Technical Newsletter SPHN Webinars SPHN DCC Training Leave this field empty if you're human: Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle About SPHN About SPHN The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) is an initiative of the Swiss Federal Government to establish a national data infrastructure for clinical and omics data for research. The State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation () allocated CHF 68 million to the SPHN initiative for the period 2017-2020, and CHF 66.9 million for 2021-2024. After 2024, the SPHN data infrastructure will be permantently integrated into the Swiss research landscape. For more information, read our mandate from the SERI and the Federal Office of Public Health () for the first () and the second funding period (). Management SPHN is managed by the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences () and the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics. The National Steering Board is SPHN's decision-making body, and includes representative from key clinical, research, and research support institutions. Various and bring together the experience and know-how of (inter)national expert and institution to strengthen collaboration and contribute to the progress of SPHN. This collaborative approach is paramount to the sustainability and scalability of this nationwide endeavor. What we do Our vision is to lay the foundation for a nationwide exchange of health-related data, enabling multidisciplinary personalized-health research to improve disease prevention and medical practice, and paving the way for the development of ground-breaking treatments. To achieve this, SPHN ha adopted a decentralized approach and build a scalable network of data providers. To make health data interoperable and accessible for research, we provide common standard for data formats, semantics, governance, and exchange. In addition, we develop process and IT infrastructure that adhere to stringent ethical and legal requirements, for instance regarding data protection. Achievements Secure data processing: the BioMedIT network SPHN ha successfully established the for processing sensitive data, and released a wide range of tool for researchers, from project planning to data recruitment, transfer, analysis, and reuse (see our latest ). Projects SPHN ha funded a wide range of that have (co-)developed infrastructure and used them for research. Four (runtime: 2022-2025) are lighting example of what SPHN infrastructure can enable, now and in the future. Collaborations with hospital SPHN in hospital by funding the establishment of interoperable clinical data management systems. Semantic interoperability framework SPHN ha established a universal exchange language for health-related data, which enables researcher to combine data from different source by making data understandable for human and machines. Federated Query System The SPHN Federated Query system allows authorized researcher to search for fully anonymized clinical information across all five university hospitals. A complete list of publication related to SPHN activity can be found . (ELSIag) SPHN on YouTube Watch Dr. Katrin Crameri's Key Note lecture from the SWAT4HLCS Conference in February 2023. Dr. Katrin Crameri on how to lower computational boundary for secure access and research with health-related data. Finding patient data: The SPHN Federated Query System explained Learn about FAIR principle and many other topic with the DCC Trainings on our YouTube channel Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Publications Publications Publications resulting from SPHN funded project can be found on the dedicated . Peer-reviewed publication on SPHN activity 2023 Landers C, Ormond KE, Blasimme A, et al. J Bus Ethics (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-023-05425-w Martani A, Genevive LD, Wangmo T, et al. .DIGITAL HEALTH. 2023;9. doi:10.1177/20552076231169826 Tour V, Krauss P, Gnodtke K, Buchhorn J, Unni D, Horki P, Raisaro JL, Kalt K, Teixeira D, Crameri K, sterle S. Sci Data. 2023 Mar 10;10(1):127. doi: 10.1038/s41597-023-02028-y. PMID: 36899064; PMCID: PMC10006404. 2022 Fasquelle-Lopez J, Louis Raisaro J. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2022 May 25;294:372-376. doi: 10.3233/SHTI220477. PMID: 35612099. 2021 Gaudet-Blavignac C, Raisaro JL, Tour V, sterle S, Crameri K, Lovis C. JMIR Med Inform. 2021 Jun 24;9(6):e27591. doi: 10.2196/27591. PMID: 34185008; PMCID: PMC8277320. sterle, S.; Tour, V.; Crameri, K., SWAT4HCLS 2021, 3127-1, 19-28 Krauss P, Tour V, Gnodtke K, Crameri K, sterle S. .Applied Sciences. 2021; 11(23):11311. https://doi.org/10.3390/app112311311 2020 Lawrence AK, Selter L, Frey U. SPHN - Stud Health Technol Inform. 2020 Jun 16;270:1156-1160. doi: 10.3233/SHTI200344. PMID: 32570562. Coman Schmid D, Crameri K, Oesterle S, Rinn B, Sengstag T, Stockinger H; BioMedIT network team. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2020 Jun 16;270:1170-1174. doi: 10.3233/SHTI200348. PMID: 32570566. Blasimme A, Brall C, Vayena E. . Front Genet. 2020 Dec 11;11:585820. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2020.585820. PMID: 33362850; PMCID: PMC7759560. 2018 Meier-Abt PJ, Lawrence AK, Selter L, Effy V, Torsten S (2018). Swiss Med. Wkly 18 2836. doi.org/10.3929/ethz-b-000274911 Publications in French/German: Bhm I. Bulletin de mdecins suisse 2023;104(43):1821 (in French). . Bhm I. Schweiz rzteztg. 2023;104(43):1821 (in German). Rachamin Y, Horki P, Crameri K, Kasenda B, Antonov J, Aghayev E, Grimm M, Schulenburg J, Hugelshofer D, Maurer J, Michielin O, Rthlisberger M, Stieltjes B, Kberle D.Schweiz rzteztg. 2023;104(17):35-38 Frey U, Geiger T, Selter L.Schweiz rzteztg. 2021;102(04):142-143 Vayena E.Schweiz rzteztg. 2017;98(36):11381140 Lawrence A, Selter L.Schweiz rzteztg. 2017;98(19):595596 SPHN Factsheets and Reports Communications from the Swiss Academies of Medical Sciences (SAMS) about SPHN SAMS Bulletin:SPHN activity are featured in the quarterly printed SAMS bulletin, which provides information about current activity of the Academy and SPHN (available in German and French): SAMS Newsletter: a complete list of SAMS Newsletter about SPHN activity can be found here: Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Governance Governance The SPHN project organization involves partner at national, technical and institutional level. Both the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences () and theSwiss Institute of Bioinformatics are responsible for the implementation of the mandate. While the SAMSis the overarching body of the SPHN initiative, the SIBis responsible of the implementation of the and manages the . Governance - SPHN Initiative The National Steering Board () is the highest body of SPHN and includes representative from key institution in Switzerland (e.g. University Hospitals, Universities, , , , , patient organizations). In addition to the , SPHN is composed of the following Expert Advisory Groups and Boards: ELSI Advisory Group () National Advisory Board () Hospital IT Strategy Alignment Group () International Advisory Board () Data Coordination Center () Governance - BioMedIT Project The is the strategic and executive body of the BioMedIT project. It includes representative from the BioMedIT node (HPC clusters), a well a representative from SIB Management. Further, the is driven by several Working Groups and three BioMedIT node which are coordinated by the Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI): Working Groups () BioMedIT node (, , ) The Management Office () together with the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group () coordinate the development of the SPHN initiative. The MO is managing the overall initiative and daily operation and the PHI manages both, the and the . Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Working Groups Working Groups The Personalized Health Informatics Group () operates Working Groups to provide interoperability for the Swiss Personalized Health Network. The DASAQ Working Group develops standardization and basic quality control process for hospital data. Standardization and coding of data should happen a early a possible in the processing chain in order to be universally usable (for research and other purposes, e.g., support of registries, public health data collections, data delivery to authorities, etc.). Mandate: Chair: SPHN DCC/PHI Group Coordination: SPHN DCC/PHI Group Members: CHUV Solange Zoergiebel and Pierre Chodanowski USB Jan Roth HUG Deniz Geres USZ Amanda Ramirez Ramos INSEL Alexander Leichtle (a.i.) The ITAC Working Group develops an IT architecture and maintenance plan for a hospital data delivery pipeline which provides high quality data and is sustainable and cost-efficient for hospital to operate and maintain. Mandate: Chair: Katie Tehya Kalt USZ Coordination: Members: CHUV Yves Jaggi USB Markus Obreiter and Amanda Herbrand HUG Daniel Teixeira INSEL Reinhard Dietrich USZ Katie Kalt The RDF Working Group develops the SPHN RDF Schema and easy-to-use streamlined process to deliver high-quality SPHN compliant RDF data in each hospital. Mandate: Chair: SPHN DCC/PHI Group Coordination: PHI Group Members: CHUV Yves Jaggi and Pierre-Adrien Ghiringhelli HUG Pierre Dethare and Adbel Zalmate INSEL Henning Beywland Janshah Veettuvalappil lkbal USB Rita Achermann and Xeni Deligianni USZ Katie Kalt With the establishment of a national query system allowing researcher to ass the feasibility of their project searching across consented data of all five university hospitals, SPHN reached an important milestone. The FQS Working Group, who contributed significantly to the FQS establishment, is in charge of the coordination and alignment of all activity around the SPHN FQS in the five university hospital in the operational phase including further development of the system Mandate: Chair and project management: SPHN DCC/PHI Group and Roger Mathis (IT-Logix) Members: CHUV Yves Jaggi Insel Reinhard Dietrich HUG Pierre Dethare USB Nicole Goebel USZ Josip Matic The Semantic Working Group is responsible for further development and extension of the SPHN Dataset a well a associated documentation and training in line with the SPHN Semantics Strategy. The current edition of the SPHN Dataset contains the core concept for clinical data and is continuously extended according to the need of the SPHN projects. Mandate: Chair: SPHN DCC / PHI Group Members: CHUV Pierre Chodanowski and Gaelle Vuaridel-Thurre Insel Alexander Leichtle HUG Julien Ehrsam USB Amanda Herbrand and Benjamin Kasenda USZ Amanda Ramirez Ramos and Katie Kalt The Data Governance Working Group aim to align on a responsible data sharing strategy considering institutional data governance and researchers' interest in compliance with Swiss legal and ethical regulations. The Group will tackle different challenging topic of nationwide interest considering established SPHN legal and ethical frameworks, for which so far no clear guidance exist. Mandate: Chair: Elke Mittendorf, USZ and Pascale Meister, CHUV Coordination: , Judit Kiss Blind and Michaela Egli SPHN DCC/PHI Group; Mathilde Heusghem SIB Legal and Technology Transfer Office Members: Insel Nesa Magdalena Marti, Vijilya Shanmuganathan, Christiaan Wolfgang Vos HUG Stphanie Beuriot-Oppliger CHUV Pascale Meister, Laura Lo-Bello, Olga Larionova USZ Elke Mittendorf, Josephine Ritzel, Philip Gut USB Thomas Gruberski Unibas Danielle Kaufmann ETHZ Tom Mitar, Alexa Mundy, Ayse Sezer, Juliet Beckwith EPFL Chiara Tanteri, Valentin Conrad, Tania Germon and Adam Swetloff UNIL Benjamin Amsler, Marie Pfammatter, Loic Loutan UNIGE Andreas Schmalz UZH Gil Scheitlin UniBE Annina Keller Observing stakeholders: swissethics, SAKK, Patient representatives, interpharma, innosuisse, unitectra, SPHN ELSIag, SCTO, SBP Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Task Forces Task Forces During the Review of the SPHN Initiative in 2019, several gap were identified in the SPHN infrastructure landscape with a need for action. To address them, Task Forces, also known a adhoc working groups, were created and tasked with a specific mandate. The Working Group shall provide a survey of current practice in the field in Switzerland and identify relevant international example of meta-data catalogues. It will explore what community are active in the field and how these community tackle the challenge associated with the design and development of such catalogues: meta-data description standards, best practices, reference ontology to describe these datasets, search instruments, etc. Further, the Working Group shall explore the different type of datasets likely to be described in such catalogue (research data, cohort data, public access data, restricted access data, registry data, data a stored in clinical data warehouses, etc.). Furthermore, the Working Group shall explore the feasibility of designing a dataset catalogue to primarily find and access Swiss datasets. The specification of the catalogue should build upon existing guidelines, be compatible with the SPHN environment, principles, and effort and integrated into the overall Swiss landscape. It will also pay attention to international initiative (e.g. , , ) in the domain. More information on the mandate can be found . Chair: Patrick Ruch (HES-SO, SIB) Coordination: PHI Members: Rmy Bruggmann UniBE Cornelia Kruschel USZ Bernd Rinn SIS, ETHZ Thierry Sengstag sciCORE, University of Basel Heinz Stockinger Core-IT, SIB Constantin Sluka USB Andre Kahles ETHZ The Working Group shall develop a Harmonized Swiss Cohort and Registry Strategy. The concept should build upon existing guidelines, be compatible with the SPHN environment, principles, and effort and integrated into the overall Swiss landscape. It should focus on the need of cohort and the use of cohort data for research, identify area where harmonization is beneficial in order to achieve technical and semantic interoperability. Adopting the FAIR principle (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable), common guidelines, streamlined process and toolbox should provide usable resource not only for new cohort but also for existing ones. More information on the mandate can be found . Chair: Murielle Bochud (CHUV) Coordination: PHI Members: Adrian Spoerri Swiss National Cohort, ISPM Bern Huldrych Gnthard HIV cohort, USZ Luca Crivelli Health Economics, SUPSI Carlo Largiadr Liquid Biobank Insel Nicole Probst-Hensch Swiss TPH Valrie Pittet Swiss IBD Cohort Study Michael Koller Swiss Transplant Cohort Study, USB Thierry Sengstag sciCORE Michael Weisskopf USZ Marc Filliettaz Legal Department SIB Stephanie Wyss SNSF Martine Bourqui-Pittet FOPH Constantine Sluka USB Christine Currat SBP Further, SPHN is involved in the following national working group which are led by partner organizations: Along with the promise of personalized healthcare, citizen and patient are expressing an increasing will to be actively involved in healthcare decision-making in general and the related (clinical) research performed. Given the fact that personalized health research depends upon large number of patient (and citizens) to being willing to share their clinical information, biological sample and genomic data, acceptance and understanding for the personalized health care enterprise need to be established broadly in the general patient population and public. An open dialogue, transparency and knowledge-building measure are necessary to support trust and a positive attitude towards data sharing for research purpose and clinical research in general. The development of such measure should involve patient perspective early on. SPHN, therefore, issued a mandate for establishing a Swiss Patient & Citizen involvement Think Tank for Personalized Health and Clinical Research. The Think Tank shall identify patient/citizen related issue in the context of personalized health and clinical research in general and advise different organization (such a , , and SPHN etc). The aim of the guideline is to clarify the personal data and biological material "ownership" question, and to make suggestion to resolve, i.a., the inconsistency found in existing documents. Further, it also seek to provide guidance on the IP right regime and option offered by the harmonised . To learn what is patient and public involvement (PPI) in clinical research and how it works, watch this short video developed by . Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle BioMedIT Project BioMedIT Switzerlands secure IT network for the responsible processing of health-related data Connecting researcher from across Switzerland with biomedical data to foster personalized health: this is the aim of the national secure computing network BioMedIT, setup by the SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, in collaboration with ETH Zurich and University of Basel, a part of the SPHN initiative. BioMedIT provides a secure platform for research with sensitive data without compromising on patient privacy available for all researcher in Switzerland, also beyond SPHN. The platform span three major Swiss research institution (ETH Zurich and University of Basel, and the University of Lausanne and SIB), employing modern cloud technology and cutting-edge security procedures. Central BioMedIT service and tool enable secure (end-to-end encrypted) data transfer from data provider such a hospital and research organization into the platform, where it can be safely accessed by Swiss researcher from all academic research institutions. The fundamental service offered by BioMedIT is provision of BioMedIT secure research project space (B-spaces): specialized virtual environment for collecting, storing, analyzing and learning from health-related data at one of the three BioMedIT nodes. Visit for detail and watch the introduction video, or . BioMedIT is managed by SIBs in association with the BioMedIT nodes, (University of Basel), (ETH Zurich) and (SIB). BioMedIT on PubMed Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Data Coordination Center Data Coordination Center (DCC) The SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) operated by the of the is responsible for the coordination and for the technical implementation of key milestone of the SPHN initiative, a well a for promoting harmonization effort and process innovation throughout the Swiss health-data ecosystem. The DCC is further mandated to promote the development and implementation of nationwide standard for and exchange mechanism in order to reach the interoperability goal of the initiative. The DCC closely collaborates with the University Hospitals and other data providers, various and , and the partners. Further, the DCC take a lead on education and training across the network, a well a providing regarding technical a well a ELSI matter that arise in the community. DCC Quick Links DCC Areas of Activity Cross-Institutional Collaboration The DCC is the coordination and for all SPHN funded project and infrastructures, and promotes and support cross-institutional collaboration throughout the country. It interface between all SPHN stakeholder (including, but not limited to, data providers, data producer and researcher etc.) with regard to technical, interoperability and health-data governance issues. In collaboration with SPHN and BioMedIT expert and , bringing together subject specialist from the various stakeholder and partner institution across Switzerland, the DCC produce blueprints, guideline and policy for the responsible use and exchange of health-related data in SPHN and beyond. Infrastructure Implementation Health data-sharing infrastructure encompass not only necessary IT component but also resources, competence and related services. While the DCC support research infrastructure implementation activity throughout SPHN (e.g. in the University Hospitals, in collaboration with , and in the realm of the ), it is responsible for the implementation of several central component in relation to the FAIRification of data (i.e. make them Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re-usable), and with regard to the secure transfer, storage and use of sensitive research data. Data Privacy & IT Security & ELSI Dealing with sensitive health-related information, data protection and IT security are of paramount importance and at the core of SPHN and BioMedIT. Together with the BioMedIT node and security experts, the DCC safeguard that development in relation to BioMedIT fulfil the highest standard to ensure ethical and legal compliance. In addition, the DCC in collaboration with , node representative and security expert is responsible for the maintenance of the . In support of the ELSI effort of the initiative, the DCC foster a harmonized data governance strategy and a consistent legal and regulatory framework throughout the network. The DCC support researcher with regard to . Moreover, it develops guideline for the in compliance with Swiss legal and data protection regulations. Data Standards and Semantic Interoperability In collaboration with it partners, the DCC build a and a to make Data FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). This framework build on a strong semantic layer, using controlled vocabulary and international reference a well a a graph-based representation of the data in RDF. The framework aim to ensure that information can be interpreted consistently by both, machine and people - across projects, systems, country and time. Metadata Catalogues and Feasibility Tools To improve the findability of health-related data, the DCC support the cataloging of metadata into appropriate directories. An example is the on the Maelstrom metadata catalog, which provides general information on the cohort and querying of the catalogued variables. Another example is the , which contains information about selected SPHN projects' datasets and their data elements, a available at the Clinical Data Management Systems of the five university hospitals. In addition, a for feasibility study is being deployed in all five University Hospitals, in order to enable researcher to design and optimize study protocols. All patient-related data stay in the hospital in de-identified form, only aggregated query result (patient counts) are reported to researcher via this system for study planning purposes. BioMedIT Central Services and Technical Interoperability Given the sensitive nature of health-related information, research using patient data call for high level of security and data protection in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructures, process and expertise, in order to fulfil stringent legal, regulatory and ethical requirements. The key challenge here is to provide researcher with an integrated solution. The PHI group in close collaboration with the network partner ha setup the a part of SPHN to provide all authorized researcher in Switzerland with easy access to collaborative analysis of confidential data without compromising data privacy. Under the umbrella of the DCC, the PHI group operates a central service layer and is responsible for the coordination a well a the management and direction of the implementation of the BioMedIT Network project. Training and Information The wa launched in 2021, featuring tutorial and demonstration on topic from the responsible use of health-related data for research, FAIR health-related data, and research using sensitive data in BioMedIT. The DCC also run the to present and align on the achievement of the SPHN-funded project and other expert know-how relevant to the vision and mandate of SPHN. As the SPHN initiative advance on it mission to develop, implement and validate coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland, these seminar are a great opportunity to learn from each other, ask question and leverage expert know-how from the research community. To see upcoming Webinars, watch past talks, or register for updates, visit the SPHN Webinar page. Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Partnerships and Collaborations Partnerships and Collaborations SPHN started the collaboration with University Hospitals, Universities, the ETH Domain and ha progressively extended to other public institution and organizations. The integration of all existing relevant actor involved in personalized health is key to the success of the SPHN initiative, in particular in a small country like Switzerland. As a consequence, SPHN ha established collaboration with the following existing project and organizations: International Collaborations SPHN - a Driver Project of GA4GH SPHN wa selected in 2019 by the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health () to join an international group of leading initiatives. This group work collaboratively to create framework and standard to enable responsible research in the field of genomics and personalized health. ICPerMed Membership SPHN is Member of the International Consortium for Personalized Medicine () since 2017 and participates in the Executive Committee meetings. Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle SPHN DCC Training SPHN DCC Training The SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) operated by the of the is responsible for the coordination and for the technical implementation of key milestone of the SPHN initiative, a well a for promoting harmonization effort and process innovation throughout the Swiss health-data ecosystem. From 2021, the DCC will organize training event to help foster understanding in key aspect of both the and the . SPHN DCC training event are free to attend, but are subject to registration. If you would like to receive email about upcoming and DCC Training events, . Recordings and resource from the Training event can subsequently be found on the corresponding event page below. Videos can also be found on the . Responsible Use of Health-Related Data for Research (SWITCH aai or edu-ID required) FAIR Health-Related Data for Research Demo: Demo: BioMedIT: Research with Sensitive Data (SWITCH aai or edu-ID required) Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle SPHN Webinars SPHN Webinar Series The SPHN Data Coordination Centre (DCC) organizes on-line seminar on SPHN relevant topic to build competences, share know-how and best-practices within the SPHN network. All seminar are live-streamed, and are subsequently available on the channel. If you wish to be added to the distribution list to receive SPHN technical newsletter and invitation to future seminars, please complete this form: Communications Preferences Subscribe to all SPHN Technical Newsletter SPHN Webinars SPHN DCC Training Leave this field empty if you're human: Upcoming Webinars Please check back soon. Past Webinars SPHN Data Coordination Center Webinars Dr. Sabine sterle Personalized Health Informatics Group, SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics Katie Kalt,University Hospital Zurich Philip Krauss,Accenture Dr. Bram Stieltjes Head of Personalized Health Basel, Universittsspital Basel 27.09.2023 Patrick Hirschi Head of Clinical Data Platform for Research, Universittsspital Zrich 18.10.2023 Delivered by: Andreas von Ballmoos and Dominique Furrer, Inselspital, Universittsspital Bern 01.11.2023 Dr. Solange Zoergiebel Head of the IT Data Science team at CHUV ICT Department 15.11.2023 Dr. Solange Zoergiebel Chief Data Officer at HUG 29.11.2023 International research infrastructure initiative for (gen)omics Prof. Oliver Kohlbacher EKUT, Director GHGA Prof. Oliver Stegle DKFZ/EMBL, Director GHGA Dr. Mallory Freeberg Coordinator, European Genome-phenome Archive, EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute, Hinxton UK, and Dr. Teresa D'Altri Project Manager and Coordinator, European Genome-phenome Archive, CRG, Barcelona Anonymising Heath Data under the GDPR - Challenges and Experiences Prof. Dr. Fabian Prasser Medical Informatics Lab, Berlin Institute of Health, Charit - Univerittsmedizin Berlin De-identification Standards: What Works, What Doesnt, and What Fails Miserably Bradley Malin, PhD Accenture Professor of Biomedical Informatics, Biostatistics, and Computer Science, Vice Chair for Research Affairs, Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center FAIRification: Commitment, Implementation, Empowerment Marco Roos and Nria Queralt-Rosinach Biosemantics, Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands FHIR, RDF, ShEx, and JSON-LD: Synergies and opportunity for SPHN Prof. Harold Solbrig Professor, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore GA4GH and Phenopackets: Synergies and opportunity for SPHN Prof. Melissa Haendel, Director of the Center for Data to Health, Oregon Health & Science University Dr. Robert Jakob, Unit Head, and Nenad Kostanjsek, Technical Officer Classifications & Terminologies Unit, Division of Data, Analytics and Delivery for Impact, World Health Organization Please visit for the latest information and update on ICD-11. Elena Cardillo and Maria Teresa Chiaravalloti Institute of Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council in Rende, Italy Johan van Soest, PhD Brightlands Institute for Smart Society, Maastricht University OMOP/OHDSI and the power of using open science for generating medical evidence Kees van Bochove Founder, The Hyve, Utrecht, The Netherlands Prof. Roger Schibli Center for Radiopharmaceutical Sciences, ETHZ-PSI-USZ Citizen Centered Consent: A comprehensive approach for national consent management (C3-STUDY) Christian Lovis, MD, MPH FACMI Professor of Clinical Informatics, University of Geneva, Head of Medical Information Sciences Division, Geneva University Hospitals CREATE PRIMA clinical research from multi-modality big data source Prof. Dr. med. Jrg D. Leuppi Head of the University Clinic of Medicine, Cantonal Hospital Basel-Land De-identification of clinical narrative data in French, German and Italian (DeID) Christian Lovis, MD, MPH FACMI Professor of Clinical Informatics, University of Geneva, Head of Medical Information Sciences Division, Geneva University Hospitals Development of a governance and quality management system for ex-change of patient related data for research purpose Dr. Joerg Willers Head Clinical Study Competence Center, Department Clinical Research at University Hospital Basel/ University Basel (SWITCH edu-ID required) E-General Consent: Development and Implementation of a Nationwide Harmonized Interactive Electronic General Consent Dr. Ramon Saccilotto Team-leader Application Development / Department of Clinical Research, University of Basel / University Hospital Basel (SWITCH edu-ID required) Harmonising the collection of health-related data and biospecimens in paediatric hospital throughout Switzerland Prof. Claudia Khni Dr. med., Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Berne (SWITCH edu-ID required) Imagine: Radiomics for comprehensive patient and disease phenotyping in personalized health Prof. Matthias Guckenberger, Chairman of Department of Radiation-Oncology, University Hospital Zurich Dr. Stephanie Tanadini-Lang, Group leader Clinical Medical Physics, University of Zurich Dr. Michael Bach, University Hospital Basel Prof. Andrea Bink, Senior Physician, Neuroradiology Clinic, University Hospital Zurich Prof. Roland Wiest, Group Leader Support Center for Advanced Neuroimaging, Univeristy of Bern, University Hospital Inselspital Bern Prof. Mauricio Reyes, ARTORG Center for Biomedical Engineering Research, University of Bern, University Hospital Inselspital Bern Prof. Adrien Depeursinge, Institute of Information Systems, HES-SO LOINC for Swiss Laboratories (L4CHLAB) Christian Lovis, MD, MPH FACMI Professor of Clinical Informatics, University of Geneva, Head of Medical Information Sciences Division, Geneva University Hospitals Linked data in SPHN - A framework to semantically express and enrich health-related data Dr. Sabine sterle, Dr. Vasundra Tour and Kristin Gnodtke Data Interoperability Team, Personalized Health Informatics Group, SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics MedCo: Enabling Secure & Privacy-Preserving Exploration of Distributed Clinical and *Omics Cohorts Prof Jean-Pierre Hubaux School of Computer and Communication Sciences, cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne (EPFL) NLP-powered mapping of clinical report onto SNOMED-CT concept for tumour classification (NLPforTC) Rita Achermann Msc Statistics ETH, Department of Clinical Research, University Hospital Basel Pascal Dblin Computer Scientist, Clinical Trial Unit, University Hospital Basel Ivan Nesic Computer Scientist, Medical Science Competence Centre, University Hospital Basel (SWITCH edu-ID required) Population-wide screen of the immune repertoire: a reverse personalized-medicine approach Marc Emmenegger Group Prof. Dr. Adriano Aguzzi Institute of Neuropathology, University Hospital Zurich, University of Zurich (SWITCH edu-ID required) PRECISE: Identification of biomarkers and therapeutic target in inflammatory disease immunotherapy by high-dimensional single cell analysis and cluster proteomics Prof. Manfred Claassen Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, Department of Biology, ETHZ and SIB (SWITCH edu-ID required) Prof. Dr. med. Dr. phil. Adrian Egli University Hospital Basel, University of Basel QA4IQI Quality assessment for interoperable quantitative CTImaging Dr Bram Stieltjes, Vice Chair of Research, Radiology, Head of Research and Analytics, ICT, University Hospital Basel Swiss Frailty Network and Repository - SFNR Prof. Heike A. Bischoff-Ferrari, MD, DrPH Clinic Director, Dept. of Geriatrics, University Hospital Zurich (SWITCH edu-ID required) Swiss Molecular Pathology Breakthrough Platform (SOCIBP) Prof Mark Rubin Director, Department for BioMedical Research, University of Bern and Bern Center for Precision Medicine Inselspital, Bern University Hospital Prof. Olivier Michielin, MD-PhD Head of Precision Oncology Center, Department of Oncology, Lausanne University/University Hospital, Switzerland Daniel Stekhoven Head Clinical Bioinformatics, NEXUS Personalized Health Technologies, ETH Zurich Valrie Barbi Group Leader Clinical Bioinformatics, SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics 19 Feb 2019 05 May 2021 Swiss BioRef: Personalized reference value for precision medicine Prof. Dr. med. Alexander B. Leichtle Inselspital Bern University Hospital SwissGenVar A platform for clinical grade interpretation of genetic variant to foster personalized health care in Switzerland Prof. Dr. med. Anita Rauch Director of Medical Genetics, University Hospital Zurich Dr Valrie Barbi Director Clinical Bioinformatics, Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics Professor Christian M. Matter, University Hospital Zurich, (SPHN) Professor Joachim M. Buhmann, ETH Zurich (PHRT) Dr. Antje Thien, University Hospital Zurich SwissPKcdw: Optimising paediatric dosage regimen based on a clinical data warehouse Dr. med. Paolo Paioni Division of Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiology, University Children's Hospital Zurich Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Data Coordination Center Data Coordination Center (DCC) The SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) operated by the of the is responsible for the coordination and for the technical implementation of key milestone of the SPHN initiative, a well a for promoting harmonization effort and process innovation throughout the Swiss health-data ecosystem. The DCC is further mandated to promote the development and implementation of nationwide standard for and exchange mechanism in order to reach the interoperability goal of the initiative. The DCC closely collaborates with the University Hospitals and other data providers, various and , and the partners. Further, the DCC take a lead on education and training across the network, a well a providing regarding technical a well a ELSI matter that arise in the community. DCC Quick Links DCC Areas of Activity Cross-Institutional Collaboration The DCC is the coordination and for all SPHN funded project and infrastructures, and promotes and support cross-institutional collaboration throughout the country. It interface between all SPHN stakeholder (including, but not limited to, data providers, data producer and researcher etc.) with regard to technical, interoperability and health-data governance issues. In collaboration with SPHN and BioMedIT expert and , bringing together subject specialist from the various stakeholder and partner institution across Switzerland, the DCC produce blueprints, guideline and policy for the responsible use and exchange of health-related data in SPHN and beyond. Infrastructure Implementation Health data-sharing infrastructure encompass not only necessary IT component but also resources, competence and related services. While the DCC support research infrastructure implementation activity throughout SPHN (e.g. in the University Hospitals, in collaboration with , and in the realm of the ), it is responsible for the implementation of several central component in relation to the FAIRification of data (i.e. make them Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re-usable), and with regard to the secure transfer, storage and use of sensitive research data. Data Privacy & IT Security & ELSI Dealing with sensitive health-related information, data protection and IT security are of paramount importance and at the core of SPHN and BioMedIT. Together with the BioMedIT node and security experts, the DCC safeguard that development in relation to BioMedIT fulfil the highest standard to ensure ethical and legal compliance. In addition, the DCC in collaboration with , node representative and security expert is responsible for the maintenance of the . In support of the ELSI effort of the initiative, the DCC foster a harmonized data governance strategy and a consistent legal and regulatory framework throughout the network. The DCC support researcher with regard to . Moreover, it develops guideline for the in compliance with Swiss legal and data protection regulations. Data Standards and Semantic Interoperability In collaboration with it partners, the DCC build a and a to make Data FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). This framework build on a strong semantic layer, using controlled vocabulary and international reference a well a a graph-based representation of the data in RDF. The framework aim to ensure that information can be interpreted consistently by both, machine and people - across projects, systems, country and time. Metadata Catalogues and Feasibility Tools To improve the findability of health-related data, the DCC support the cataloging of metadata into appropriate directories. An example is the on the Maelstrom metadata catalog, which provides general information on the cohort and querying of the catalogued variables. Another example is the , which contains information about selected SPHN projects' datasets and their data elements, a available at the Clinical Data Management Systems of the five university hospitals. In addition, a for feasibility study is being deployed in all five University Hospitals, in order to enable researcher to design and optimize study protocols. All patient-related data stay in the hospital in de-identified form, only aggregated query result (patient counts) are reported to researcher via this system for study planning purposes. BioMedIT Central Services and Technical Interoperability Given the sensitive nature of health-related information, research using patient data call for high level of security and data protection in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructures, process and expertise, in order to fulfil stringent legal, regulatory and ethical requirements. The key challenge here is to provide researcher with an integrated solution. The PHI group in close collaboration with the network partner ha setup the a part of SPHN to provide all authorized researcher in Switzerland with easy access to collaborative analysis of confidential data without compromising data privacy. Under the umbrella of the DCC, the PHI group operates a central service layer and is responsible for the coordination a well a the management and direction of the implementation of the BioMedIT Network project. Training and Information The wa launched in 2021, featuring tutorial and demonstration on topic from the responsible use of health-related data for research, FAIR health-related data, and research using sensitive data in BioMedIT. The DCC also run the to present and align on the achievement of the SPHN-funded project and other expert know-how relevant to the vision and mandate of SPHN. As the SPHN initiative advance on it mission to develop, implement and validate coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland, these seminar are a great opportunity to learn from each other, ask question and leverage expert know-how from the research community. To see upcoming Webinars, watch past talks, or register for updates, visit the SPHN Webinar page. Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle BioMedIT Project BioMedIT Switzerlands secure IT network for the responsible processing of health-related data Connecting researcher from across Switzerland with biomedical data to foster personalized health: this is the aim of the national secure computing network BioMedIT, setup by the SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, in collaboration with ETH Zurich and University of Basel, a part of the SPHN initiative. BioMedIT provides a secure platform for research with sensitive data without compromising on patient privacy available for all researcher in Switzerland, also beyond SPHN. The platform span three major Swiss research institution (ETH Zurich and University of Basel, and the University of Lausanne and SIB), employing modern cloud technology and cutting-edge security procedures. Central BioMedIT service and tool enable secure (end-to-end encrypted) data transfer from data provider such a hospital and research organization into the platform, where it can be safely accessed by Swiss researcher from all academic research institutions. The fundamental service offered by BioMedIT is provision of BioMedIT secure research project space (B-spaces): specialized virtual environment for collecting, storing, analyzing and learning from health-related data at one of the three BioMedIT nodes. Visit for detail and watch the introduction video, or . BioMedIT is managed by SIBs in association with the BioMedIT nodes, (University of Basel), (ETH Zurich) and (SIB). BioMedIT on PubMed Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Working Groups Working Groups The Personalized Health Informatics Group () operates Working Groups to provide interoperability for the Swiss Personalized Health Network. The DASAQ Working Group develops standardization and basic quality control process for hospital data. Standardization and coding of data should happen a early a possible in the processing chain in order to be universally usable (for research and other purposes, e.g., support of registries, public health data collections, data delivery to authorities, etc.). Mandate: Chair: SPHN DCC/PHI Group Coordination: SPHN DCC/PHI Group Members: CHUV Solange Zoergiebel and Pierre Chodanowski USB Jan Roth HUG Deniz Geres USZ Amanda Ramirez Ramos INSEL Alexander Leichtle (a.i.) The ITAC Working Group develops an IT architecture and maintenance plan for a hospital data delivery pipeline which provides high quality data and is sustainable and cost-efficient for hospital to operate and maintain. Mandate: Chair: Katie Tehya Kalt USZ Coordination: Members: CHUV Yves Jaggi USB Markus Obreiter and Amanda Herbrand HUG Daniel Teixeira INSEL Reinhard Dietrich USZ Katie Kalt The RDF Working Group develops the SPHN RDF Schema and easy-to-use streamlined process to deliver high-quality SPHN compliant RDF data in each hospital. Mandate: Chair: SPHN DCC/PHI Group Coordination: PHI Group Members: CHUV Yves Jaggi and Pierre-Adrien Ghiringhelli HUG Pierre Dethare and Adbel Zalmate INSEL Henning Beywland Janshah Veettuvalappil lkbal USB Rita Achermann and Xeni Deligianni USZ Katie Kalt With the establishment of a national query system allowing researcher to ass the feasibility of their project searching across consented data of all five university hospitals, SPHN reached an important milestone. The FQS Working Group, who contributed significantly to the FQS establishment, is in charge of the coordination and alignment of all activity around the SPHN FQS in the five university hospital in the operational phase including further development of the system Mandate: Chair and project management: SPHN DCC/PHI Group and Roger Mathis (IT-Logix) Members: CHUV Yves Jaggi Insel Reinhard Dietrich HUG Pierre Dethare USB Nicole Goebel USZ Josip Matic The Semantic Working Group is responsible for further development and extension of the SPHN Dataset a well a associated documentation and training in line with the SPHN Semantics Strategy. The current edition of the SPHN Dataset contains the core concept for clinical data and is continuously extended according to the need of the SPHN projects. Mandate: Chair: SPHN DCC / PHI Group Members: CHUV Pierre Chodanowski and Gaelle Vuaridel-Thurre Insel Alexander Leichtle HUG Julien Ehrsam USB Amanda Herbrand and Benjamin Kasenda USZ Amanda Ramirez Ramos and Katie Kalt The Data Governance Working Group aim to align on a responsible data sharing strategy considering institutional data governance and researchers' interest in compliance with Swiss legal and ethical regulations. The Group will tackle different challenging topic of nationwide interest considering established SPHN legal and ethical frameworks, for which so far no clear guidance exist. Mandate: Chair: Elke Mittendorf, USZ and Pascale Meister, CHUV Coordination: , Judit Kiss Blind and Michaela Egli SPHN DCC/PHI Group; Mathilde Heusghem SIB Legal and Technology Transfer Office Members: Insel Nesa Magdalena Marti, Vijilya Shanmuganathan, Christiaan Wolfgang Vos HUG Stphanie Beuriot-Oppliger CHUV Pascale Meister, Laura Lo-Bello, Olga Larionova USZ Elke Mittendorf, Josephine Ritzel, Philip Gut USB Thomas Gruberski Unibas Danielle Kaufmann ETHZ Tom Mitar, Alexa Mundy, Ayse Sezer, Juliet Beckwith EPFL Chiara Tanteri, Valentin Conrad, Tania Germon and Adam Swetloff UNIL Benjamin Amsler, Marie Pfammatter, Loic Loutan UNIGE Andreas Schmalz UZH Gil Scheitlin UniBE Annina Keller Observing stakeholders: swissethics, SAKK, Patient representatives, interpharma, innosuisse, unitectra, SPHN ELSIag, SCTO, SBP Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle All change and continuity in the DCC leadership 06.05.2024 After 5 year a Director of the SPHN Data Coordination Center (DCC) and Group Leader of the SIB Personalized Health Informatics Group, Dr. Katrin Crameri will be taking up a new position, co-heading the DigiSant program of the Federal Department of Home Affairs (FDHA) and the Digital Transformation Division of the Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH) from June 1, 2024. Dr. Thomas Geiger, SPHN Managing Director, will assume ad interim the responsibility for the DCCs activities. Katrin took over the management in 2019 - since then, the DCC's portfolio of activity ha grown significantly. It now includes the efficient FAIRification of health data provided by Swiss hospital and other data providers, a Federated Query System for feasibility assessment on data from over 640,000 patients, a helpdesk to support legal and ethical framework for research with sensitive data in multi-center settings, and end-to-end solution for data provider a well a researcher for the secure mobilization, processing, analysis and storage of sensitive research data on BioMedIT - Switzerland's Trusted Research Environment. Katrin's tireless enthusiasm, resilience and energy have led the DCC team to constantly break new ground in building the Swiss health research data ecosystem, always finding goal-oriented solution even in complex and difficult situations, making Switzerland a pioneer in collaborative research with health data. Thomas Geiger, Director of the SPHN Management Office since 2021, will take over the lead of DCC on an interim basis, in addition to his current responsibilities. Thomas' comprehensive understanding of the activity across the initiative, his diplomatic skill and his good relationship with the DCC team member and network partner will ensure a smooth transition into the new funding phase of the future SPHN-DCC. The ERI Dispatch 2025-2028 foresees to fund the SPHN-DCC for additional four year to consolidate it activities, further develop and deliver service to researcher across Switzerland in the period 2025-2028. The overall mandate and multi-stakeholder governance of the SPHN-DCC will remain in the responsibility of the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences (SAMS), with Thomas Geiger a the SPHN-DCC Director. SIB will continue to participate in national and international effort to facilitate the reusability of clinical and biomedical data in research. SAMS welcome SIBs commitment to continued collaboration and the opportunity to draw on the SIB's technical expertise a well a it access to the Swiss bioinformatics community and the European life science infrastructure ELIXIR. SIB will recruit a new group leader for the Personalized Health Informatics group to continue the work in the area of sharing and reuse of medical data. is the Federal Department of Home Affairs program to promote digital transformation in the healthcare sector. There are many exciting overlap and area for potential collaboration and synergy between SPHN and the DigiSant program, and the SPHN-DCC look forward to continuing to work with Katrin Crameri a she settle in her new role at the FOPH. Are you interested to learn more about SPHN, DigiSant and the potential synergies? Then join u on the 31 October 2024 for the symposium, jointly organized by SPHN and it sister ETH-Domain initiative Personalized Health and Related Technologies. You can register . Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Over the past eight years, the collaborative effort of the Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) initiative and the Personalized Health and Related Technologies (PHRT) program have laid important groundwork for advancing personalized health research. The two initiativescontributed to the development, implementation and validation of coordinated data infrastructure in order to make health-relevant data interoperable and shareable for research in Switzerland. Reaching the end of the initiative by the end of 2024, we warmly invite you to attend the "Data for Health" symposium in Bern on 31 October to discover the achievement and envision the future Swiss health research data ecosystem. The event will bring together stakeholder of the health care and research data ecosystem, including industry leader and political representatives, patients, international expert and researchers, to discus and foster personalized health research and care in Switzerland. Registration Please use our online tool to register for the event: Regular fee: 50.- CHF Students, PhDs and Postdocs can attend the event free of charge. When registering, please select the appropriate category. The fee ha to be paid by electronic payment. We do not issue bill and sale are final and cannot be canceled and/or reimbursed. Program Please click on the link below to view the program. We will update it continuously and share all relevant information about speakers, session and timeline here. Keynote speaker Stanford University Russ Biagio Altman is the Kenneth Fong Professor of Bioengineering, Genetics, Medicine, Biomedical Data Science and (by courtesy) Computer Science) and past chairman of the Bioengineering Department at Stanford University. His primary research interest are in the application of computing (AI, data science and informatics) to problem relevant to medicine. He is particularly interested in method for understanding drug action at molecular, cellular, organism and population levels. Russ Biagio Altman is the Kenneth Fong Professor of Bioengineering, Genetics, Medicine, Biomedical Data Science and (by courtesy) Computer Science) and past chairman of the Bioengineering Department at Stanford University. His primary research interest are in the application of computing (AI, data science and informatics) to problem relevant to medicine. He is particularly interested in method for understanding drug action at molecular, cellular, organism and population levels. Russ is also the chairperson of the SPHN International Advisory Board. University of Geneva Antoine Geissbhler is an internist and specialist in medical informatics. A full professor since 2006, he is also Director of the HUG Innovation Centre and Head of the Division of e-Health and Telemedicine, which ha been designed a a WHO collaborating centre. His research focus on the design and application of new IT tool in the medical field. In particular, he helped implement Switzerland's e-health strategy and developed the RAFT project, a major telemedicine network linking hundred of healthcare professional in 20 country in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Antoine is also the chairperson of the SPHN National Advisory Board and the ORD Taskforce Health and Life Science Data. Dr. Martina Hirayama Head of the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI) at Federal Department of Economic Affairs, Education and Research Martina Hirayama studied Chemistry at the ETH Zurich, the University of Fribourg and Imperial College London, graduating from ETH Zurich with a doctorate in technical science (Dr. sc. Techn). She went on to do postgraduate study in Business Economics at the ETH Zurich, and completed her thesis in 1997. She then worked in the ETH Zurichs Department of Materials, becoming head of the Polymer Chemistry Group in 2001. During this time, Ms Hirayama co-founded a start-up in new coating technologies, and wa CEO of the company until 2008. In 2003 she began lecturing in Industrial Chemistry at the Zurich University of Applied Sciences Winterthur ZHW (now ZHAW), where she developed and headed the field of polymer material and obtained her professorship. From 2007 to 2010 she developed the ZHAWs Institute of Materials and Process Engineering. From 2011 to 2018 she wa Director of the ZHAW School of Engineering, a member of the university executive board and from 2014 head of International Affairs. From 2012 to 2018 Martina Hirayama wa president of the board of the Federal Institute of Metrology METAS, from 2011 to 2018 vice president of the Innovation Promotion Agency Innosuisse board (until 2017 the Commission for Technology and Innovation) and from 2016 to 2018 a member of the Swiss National Science Foundation board. She wa also on the board and executive committee of several other organisations, namely the Swiss Study Foundation, the Swiss Academy of Engineering Sciences SATW, the Zurich Chamber of Commerce, and the Kuratorium of the Freiburger Materialforschungszentrum at the Albert-Ludwigs University in Freiburg (Germany). Moreover, she acted a an expert for the National Research Fund Luxembourg (FNR) and the European Commission Anne Lvy Director-General of the Federal Office of Public Health FOPH (since 2020) Lic. sc. pol. degree in political science (University of Lausanne), Executive MBA (University of Fribourg) Anne Lvy coordinate the FOPHs business with the FDHAs planning. She assures representation of the FOPH, and in some case the FDHA, in interdepartmental working group and on parliamentary committee and international bodies. In addition, Anne Lvy head and plan healthcare reform project at the national level. 201520 CEO, University Psychiatric Clinics, Basel | 200915 Head of Health Protection, Basel-Stadt Department of Health, Basel | 200409 Head of Alcohol and Tobacco Section, FOPH, Bern| 200304 Technical Assistant to the Assistant Director and Head of the Main Unit Substance Abuse and AIDS, FOPH, Bern | 200103 Research Associate, Head of Coordination and Service Platform for Addiction, FOPH, Bern | 2000 Project Manager, United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS), New York Dr. med. Katharina Gasser General Manager of Roche Pharma Switzerland Dr. med. Katharina Gasser studied medicine with a specialization in pharmaceutical medicine. She gained practical experience a a doctor in internal medicine and geriatrics and then moved into the healthcare industry, where she worked for many year in various management position in Switzerland and around the world. Since September 2022 she is the General Manager of Roche Pharma Switzerland. Location & Travel The symposium take place at the (Kornhausstrasse 3, 3001, Bern) in the picturesque capital of Switzerland. The Kursaal is a modern conference center with all amenity that is situated at the heart of Bern and offer astonishing view of the surrounding mountains. Arrival by public transport: Streetcar line no. 9 take you from Bern railroad station (Kante B) directly to the "Kursaal" streetcar stop (near Viktoriaplatz) in only 4 minutes. Arrival by car: The Kursaal can be reached by car via all common routes. You can follow the route given by your navigation system / Google Maps. Use "Kursaal Parking" a the address, the hotel's own underground parking garage with 240 parking spaces. Information & Contact If you have any question concerning the symposium, please do not hesitate to reach out to us. You can contact u on: For more information on the Swiss Personalized Health Network and the ETH Domain initiative Personalized Health and Related Technologies visit: Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle SPHN: Solid basis for AI in local medicine 26 March 2024 The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) into health research and care promise many advance for the future. At the technical level, the development of supporting algorithm however requires a large amount of meaningful, structured and interoperable data and, in practice, good regulation of AI applications. The interoperability effort of SPHN provide a solid foundation for emerging AI development in medical research and care. AI ha great potential for health research and for supporting clinical practice and decision making, but it come with a major caveat: AI model - and the validity of their result - are only a good a the data provided to the algorithm for training. For AI development to gain a foothold in Swiss medicine, two important prerequisite must therefore be met: First, the availability of a critical mass of data (big Data) and second, a solid database, ideally from the Swiss population, so that the AI-supported product are also tailored to the local population. In a small country like Switzerland, large amount of data can only be collected by combining data from different sources. To ensure that the data within this mass is also comparable (interoperable), data collection and processing must be coordinated in a targeted manner. This includes the implementation of clearly defined standard so that data is recorded in a standardised format and the provision of sufficient contextual information (metadata) to describe the data and make it interpretable by human and machines. Both are essential in order to be able to ass the quality of the data for a specific purpose. The SPHN Semantic Interoperability Framework lay the foundation As part of the semantic interoperability strategy, semantic expert and healthcare and research professional have developed clear definition for more than 150 clinical variables. They were used to develop the SPHN concepts, in accordance with internationally recognised data standard such a SNOMED-CT or LOINC. The use of open standard from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) in SPHN make it possible to link this data with other data (outside of clinical medicine) such a environmental or biological data. Thanks to the powerful schema language, all eventuality can be mapped, and the standard and ontology used enable AI algorithm to learn domain-specific generalisations. The framework created by SPHN enables the efficient provision of usable routine clinical data for the development of AI-based medical device that can learn and benefit from the well-defined relationship between the data elements. We are only at the beginning of the development The technical and data-related requirement are only one important aspect of AI. Equally important and no le complex is the question of regulating AI application in practice. This is all the more crucial a the boundary between research and treatment blur. The newly created "" is thus addressing the requirement and practice that are necessary for the use of health data to develop AI-based algorithm and decision support tool for patient treatment. The importance of AI application in personalized medical research and treatment is certain to increase. The effort of SPHN are laying the foundation for Switzerland to continue to be involved in the future. Collaboration across border will be the way forward Switzerland is participating internationally in the ARGOS project, which ha been running since mid-2021. The University Hospitals of Basel and Zurich and sciCORE, one of the three BioMedIT nodes, form the Swiss node of an international "". As part of this project, an algorithm modelled on the biological model of the human brain (deep learning) is being trained at more than 20 location worldwide to automatically segment CT image of lung cancer patients. Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Where are the bottleneck to health data sharing in Switzerland? 14 March 2024 The Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) initiative coordinate the development of infrastructure for the responsible use of health-related data in research throughout Switzerland. The sharing of health data however face repeatedly hurdle and bottlenecks. A recently published study shed light on legal and ethical challenge besides technical aspects. Switzerland ha numerous laws, ordinance and policy to regulate the sharing of health data for research. In addition, SPHN ha laid important foundation to enable and promote the responsible and ethically correct sharing of health data. These include the SPHN Semantic Interoperability Strategy, a comprehensive contractual framework, e.g. the SPHN Ethical Framework and legal templates. In addition, the BioMedIT network provides a secure and trustworthy IT environment for analyzing sensitive health data. In practice, however, there are still uncertainty and ambiguities, especially when exchanging data at an international level or with third parties. The multi-centric National Data Streams, jointly funded by SPHN and the ETH-Domain program Personalized Health and Related Technologies have exemplified these uncertainties. A study recently published in Swiss Medical Weekly now provides new insights. The study wa led by Effy Vayena, long-standing chair of the SPHN ELSIag, and the at ETH Zurich, and Kelly Ormond, in collaboration with SPHN, the , the and the . The majority of stakeholder surveyed in semi-structured interview believe that the most complex and confusing aspect of data exchange do not lie in the actual data transfer itself, but in the associated process and systems. The uncertainty relate to data protection laws, data ownership issue and process for anonymisation and pseudonymisation. The study concludes that facilitating data access and exchange in Switzerland primarily requires further legal clarification, training and investment in sustainable infrastructures. Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Linked Data Day 2024 The Linked Data Day is an annual conference organized by the Swiss Federal Archives in cooperation with the Institute for Public Sector Transformation of the Berner Fachhoschule Wirtschaft. 15.05.2024, 8.30-16.30 - Welle 7, Bern Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Workshop "Unlocking the full potential of health data for research: A hands-on exploration of a tool stack for FAIR knowledge graphs" The conference will once more bring together expert from a variety of discipline to explore present and future direction in the field of personalized health technologies. The workshop held by the provides a step-by-step illustration of the Knowledge Graph (KG) generation process, covering the entire journey from schema design to data generation and analysis. Participants will acquire an understanding of the semantic tool and guiding principle developed within the Swiss Personalized Health Network. These tool can be effectively utilized to generate KG according to W3C and are fully aligned with FAIR. Specifically, the workshop includes interactive demo session that guide participant through the design and technical implementation of a data schema using the Resource Description Format (RDF). The SPHN RDF Schema serf a a foundation for designing individual RDF schemas. Leveraging the SPHN Schema Forge, even participant without prior knowledge of the semantic web can proficiently create semantic artifact such a schemas, incorporating SHACLs for quality control and SPARQL query for statistical analysis. More information about the workshop: Registration for the workshop: Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Personalized Health Technologies 2024 The fourth edition of the conference will once more bring together expert from a variety of discipline to explore present and future direction in the field of personalized health technologies. We aim to meet challenge in clinical bioinformatics, chemical hit identification, datadriven clinical decision support, lead development, biomedical statistics, and molecular circuit interference. Post navigation Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search Menu Toggle Main Menu Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle Menu Toggle FAQ Reporting General question The main applicant is responsible for collecting the financial information from the other applicant and for providing a consolidated report to the Management Office using the appropriate template. The main applicant's institution is free to decide internally who is responsible for the reporting (e.g. the PI or the grant office); we recommend that you use the same internal process and responsibility a for SNSF grants. For own contribution in cash, the institution should setup an account/credit line administred by the applicant in order to be considered a cash own contributions. No. If the project cost exceed the budget allocated by SPHN, the extra cost must be covered by the consortium. VAT should only be charged to the project if the institution is unable to recover it. In case the institution is able to recover VAT, only the expense excluding VAT can be charged to the project. Yes, the unused fund received from SPHN can be rolled over to the following years. No updated budget is needed if the overall budget doe not change. Personnel/Staff Yes, the amount defined in the call text and budget template define the maximum applicable rate for salary paid by SPHN funds. In case the effective salary is higher than the maximum applicable rate, the difference ha to be paid by the institution and cannot be considered a own contribution. For salary paid with SPHN funds, the effective salary must be reported. In case the effective salary is higher than the maximum applicable rate, the difference ha to be paid by the institution and cannot be considered a own contribution. For salary paid with own contributions, the lump-sums should be reported. Salary sheet of all employee paid with SPHN funds, including Professors, must be provided. Yearly report showing detail of the salary charged to the project are also accepted. For salary paid with own contributions, no supporting document are required. By signing the financial report, the PI certifies that the salary reported a own contribution are accurate and reflect reality. Institutions are free to organise themselves regarding where the staff working on the SPHN project is employed (University or University Hospital). Only "standard" salary and social contribution are covered by SPHN funds. Benefitsprovided by the employersuch a lunch vouchers, company car, participation towards health insurance cost are not covered by SPHN and must be paid by the institution. Equipment and infrastructure Yes, the acquisition cost for a piece of equipment can be debited from the project funds. For purchase of CHF 1'000 and above, a copy of the invoice ha to be provided. For purchase of CHF 10'000 and above, the Management office should be notified before the purchase order. The equipment should be used for at least 50% of the time for the SPHN project. In the yearly financial reporting, the offer, the purchaseorder and the inventory sheet confirming delivery of the equipment should be provided. In addition, the equipment's share of usage for the SPHN project must be verifiable and auditable (e.g. recorded in a lab book). Please refer to the SNSF guideline to distinguish between eligible and non-eligible cost for the use of internal infrastructure that can be charged to the SPHN Grant: Key Documents All documents, guidelines, and template are available on the page. Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) Haus der Akademien | Laupenstrasse 7 | CH-3001 Bern Personalized Health Informatics Group (PHI) Elisabethenstrasse 43 | CH-4051 Basel Start typing and press enter to search Search