develops European principle for the secondary use of health data Theprojectis divided into eightwork package led by organisation from different country Work package 1-3 are linked to execution of the joint action. WP 4-8 are thematic work package linked to the secondary use of health data. Our goal is that in the future European citizens, community and company will benefit from secure and seamless access to health data regardless of where it is stored. TEHDAS, the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space, help EU member state and the European Commission to develop and promote concept for the secondary use of health data to benefit public health and health research and innovation in Europe. Joint Action Towards the European Health Data Space TEHDAS The TEHDAS Joint Action developed European principle for the secondary use of health data. A new joint action will start in 2024 and build on TEHDAS work. TEHDAS wa carried out by 25 European country and co-ordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund, Sitra. The project started in February 2021 and ended in July 2023. It wa based on the European Commissions Health Programme 2020. TEHDAS finding now in single report The EHDS will change how health data is used in the EU for research, innovation and policymaking. TEHDAS impact can be seen in the EU Commissions proposal, which will benefit all in Europe for decade to come. Published on 02.02.2024. 02.02.2024 Published on 12.10.2023. 12.10.2023 Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 8 Citizens WP 8 Citizens Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Joint Action Towards the European Health Data Space TEHDAS The TEHDAS Joint Action developed European principle for the secondary use of health data. A new joint action will start in 2024 and build on TEHDAS work. TEHDAS wa carried out by 25 European country and co-ordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund, Sitra. The project started in February 2021 and ended in July 2023. It wa based on the European Commissions Health Programme 2020. TEHDAS finding now in single report The EHDS will change how health data is used in the EU for research, innovation and policymaking. TEHDAS impact can be seen in the EU Commissions proposal, which will benefit all in Europe for decade to come. Published on 02.02.2024. 02.02.2024 Published on 12.10.2023. 12.10.2023 Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 8 Citizens WP 8 Citizens Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Project The TEHDAS project developed joint European principle for the secondary use of health data. The work involved 25 countries. Share away! If you feel like it. What were we doing? You need to accept marketing-cookies to watch this video Our goal wa that, in the future, European citizens, community and company would benefit from secure and seamless access to health data regardless of where it is stored. TEHDAS, the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space, helped EU member state and the European Commission to develop and promote concept for the secondary use of health data to benefit public health and health research and innovation in Europe. Our goal wa that, in the future, European citizens, community and company would benefit from secure and seamless access to health data regardless of where it is stored. The project focused on: engaging other European project and policymakers in a dialogue about the European Health Data Space; ensuring sustainability of the secondary use of health data in Europe; developing a governance model for cross-border co-operation in the secondary use of health data between European countries; promoting the reliability and compatibility of and access to health data for secondary use; clarifying the role of individual in the secondary use of health data and including them in dialogue about the use of health data for research and policymaking. The result of the TEHDAS project provided element to the European Commissions legislative proposal on the a well a supported the pan-European dialogue that followed the proposal. What wa it about? The cross-border sharing of health data ha so far been project-based and there are no legal base or common practice for the secondary use of health data in Europe. A lack of clarity and differing interpretation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) mean that health data is being underused in research and decision-making. The Covid-19 pandemic ha highlighted the urgent need for European-wide health data sharing and co-ordination. The primary use of health data is the use of health information, such a patient records, to treat a person. The secondary use of health data mean using health data for purpose other than the primary reason for which they were originally collected. The secondary use can be, for example, research, decision-making, development and innovation, and education. The benefit of the secondary use of health data include providing better healthcare service and personalised care for people, and thereby saving lives, increased business opportunity for company and cost saving for societies. Who wa involved? The TEHDAS project from 21 EU member state and four other European countries. The project wa co-ordinated by the . TEHDAS wa funded by the and the European country involved. Where are we now? The project started on 1 February 2021 and ran until 31 July 2023. TEHDAS produced for the European Commission and member state to enable EU-wide secondary use of health data. The were combined in a single report and published on 14 September 2023. under the EUs fourth Health Programme (EU4Health) that will start in 2024 with the participation of 29 European countries. Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Packages Theprojectwas divided into eightwork package led by organisation from different countries. Work package 1-3 were linked to execution of the joint action and4-8 were thematic work package linked to the secondary use of health data. Share away! If you feel like it. 1 Coordination Co-ordinates and manages the project and it implementation. Lead: The Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra, Finland 2 Dissemination Communicates the project result and deliverables. Lead: The Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra, Finland 3 Evaluation Assesses whether the project is reaching it objectives. Lead: Shared Services of the Ministry of Health, EPE, Portugal 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Engages in dialogue with national health authority of the participating country and international stakeholder and incorporates their view into the project. Ensures that the project result are integrated into future EU health legislation, in particular the European Health Data Space. 5 Sharing data for health Develops option for governance model for the exchange and secondary use of health data between European countries, based on transparency, trust, citizen empowerment and a common good.Provides recommendation for European country on planning national legislation to enable cross-border exchange and secondary use of health data. 6 Excellence in data quality Provides solution for the trustworthy secondary use of health and health care data with a view to promoting the digital transformation of European health systems. Develops guidance on ensuring data quality such a anonymisation of data and handling of data disparity. 7 Connecting the dot Provides option for the technical interoperability of the secondary use of health data in the European Health Data Space. Encourages the participation of future user of the European Health Data Space, such a researcher and policymakers, and of the technical implementers, such a company and institutions, in co-designing the services. 8 Citizens Seeks to obtain a better understanding of citizen attitude towards sharing their health data. Identifies way to inform people about the use of their health data and raise awareness of the benefit that the secondary use of data offers. Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Partners TEHDAS project wa carried out by 25 European countries. The project required extensive specialist expertise and a variety of different partner and stakeholder across Europe were involved in the work. Share away! If you feel like it. Project partner Project partner include main partner nominated by national government and other organisation such a hospitals, research center and universities. , Greece , France , Denmark , Denmark , Croatia , Croatia , Finland , Ireland , Malta , Netherlands , Austria , Germany , Finland , Finland , Germany , Ireland , France , France , Serbia , Spain , Estonia , Sweden , United Kingdom , Hungary , Netherlands , Slovenia , Netherlands , Norway , Norway , Norway , Sweden , Germany , Belgium , Hungary , Portugal , Sweden , Finland , France , Norway , United Kingdom , France , France , Finland Advisors European organisation covering academia, businesses, public sector and NGOs participate in the advisory group to share their expertise. These organisation were selected based on an open call. Belgium/EU Association Internationale de la Mutualit (AIM) Association of European Cancer Leagues ECL b!loba Biomedical Alliance in Europe CPME Standing Committee of European Doctors DIGITALEUROPE European Health Telematics Association (EHTEL) European Association of Urology European Cancer Organisation European Coordination Committee of the Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT Industry (COCIR) European Federation of Nurses Associations European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) EURORDIS Ghent University Johnson & Johnson MedTech Europe The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD) Croatia Algebra University International Council of The Patient Ombudsman Denmark Danish Committee for Health Education EuropaBio MSD Nordic Health 2030 Movement Estonia Cybernetica AS Finland ESiOR Oy MyData Global Roche Oy University of Helsinki France De Gaulle Fleurance & Associs France Assos Sant Institut Curie MWSciCom Sanofi Groupe The European Clinical Research Infrastructure Network (ECRIN) University Paris-Saclay Germany Bavarian Data Protection Commissioner bbw University Brainlab AG Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres Stelar Security Technology Law Research Hungary Health Experience Institute Italy MetabERN Latvia Latvian Biomedical Research and Study centre Netherlands Erasmus University Medical Centre European Health Data & Evidence Network Norway DNV AS Poland e-Health Forum (Poland) Portugal ECHAlliance Magalhes & Taveira-Gomes Sociedade Mdica Lda Romania Romanian Society of Medical Informatics Spain European University Hospital Alliance Vicomtech Sweden Digitaliseringskompaniet Sverige AB / Origo programme Switzerland European Federation for Medical Informatics (EFMI) Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) consortium HL7 Europe United Kingdom Amazon Web Services Dental School SNOMED International The Digital Health Society University of Edinburgh University of Oxford Wellcome Stakeholders A wide range of European stakeholder are involved in the project. If you are interested in receiving update about the project a well a invitation to stakeholder forum, . Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Events Upcoming event Past event Takes place on 14.06.2023 in Helsinki, Finland & online 14.06.2023, Helsinki, Finland & online Takes place on 13.06.2023 in Helsinki, Finland & online 13.06.2023, Helsinki, Finland & online Takes place on 27.04.2023 in Brussels 27.04.2023, Brussels Takes place on 15.12.2022 in Online 15.12.2022, Online Page 1 Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Results Share away! If you feel like it. Filter by package Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 8 Citizens WP 8 Citizens Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 26.09.2023. 26.09.2023 Tags: WP 6 Excellence in data quality WP 6 Excellence in data quality Published on 22.09.2023. 22.09.2023 Tags: WP 5 Sharing data for health WP 5 Sharing data for health Published on 14.09.2023. 14.09.2023 Tags: WP 2 Dissemination WP 2 Dissemination Published on 05.07.2023. 05.07.2023 Tags: WP 5 Sharing data for health WP 5 Sharing data for health Published on 04.07.2023. 04.07.2023 Tags: WP 7 Connecting the dot WP 7 Connecting the dot Published on 30.05.2023. 30.05.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 28.04.2023. 28.04.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 21.04.2023. 21.04.2023 Tags: WP 7 Connecting the dot WP 7 Connecting the dot Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Contact Do you have question about the project? Please dont hesitate to contact us. General inquiry Coordination Markus Kalliola The Finnish Innovation FundSitra Communications Kirsi Suomalainen The Finnish Innovation FundSitra Are you interested in receiving update on the project? Sign up to our TEHDAS newsletter. Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. / / EU-wide collaboration needed to optimise health data use for research and innovation Published on 14.09.2023 14.09.2023 EU-wide collaboration needed to optimise health data use for research and innovation The European health data space (EHDS) will bring about a major change in the way health data is used in the European Union and therefore affect u all. Thanks to the Sitra-led TEHDAS project, the use of health data for research and innovation in the EU ha already taken a major step forward. The successful realisation of EHDS will require broad collaboration. The capacity of different EU country to facilitate the use of health data for research and innovation varies widely, according to the result of the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space (TEHDAS). For the EU-wide use of health data to be successful and sustainable, EU and national legislation need to be clarified.Currently, European researchers, policy-makers and business face many obstacle to accessing health data nationally and across borders. At present, data cannot be fully used, to the detriment of health policy and innovation such a the development of more effective medicine and treatments.The main obstacle is different interpretation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In addition, practice for collecting and processing health data vary from one EU country to another because of difference in their national legislation.Although the EHDS plan to harmonise the secondary use of health data by creating a common legal framework, the result clearly indicate that all member state need to take step to meet the requirement of the EHDS. Enabling secure access to quality data In the future, decision on using health data will be taken by a specialised authority in each country, a health data access body. Access to data would only be allowed for specific purposes.The TEHDAS project developed a data quality framework which aim to ensure that health data collected across Europe and reused for policymaking, regulation and research is reliable enough and fit for purpose.The project also produced recommendation on secure data processing environment and related practice across national borders. The European Commissions proposal for a regulation on the EHDS in 2022 includes these recommendations. Protecting people privacy will be enhanced by defining common practice for data sharing and use across Europe. Stakeholder engagement at the heart of the project TEHDAS fostered dialogue with policymakers and other key stakeholder at national and EU level to raise awareness of the profound change that are expected once the EHDS regulation enters into force. This ha increased the readiness of the member state and the Commission to establish the EHDS.Public engagement showed that people are interested in sharing their health data but with clear safeguard for privacy and security.Throughout the project, TEHDAS prioritised stakeholder engagement by hosting forum and other event and participating in almost 300 speaking engagement across Europe. The main TEHDAS event attracted about 2000 European stakeholder to discus the use of health data in Europe. A lasting contribution to EU regulation In TEHDAS, 25 European country have developed policy option and recommendation needed to make people health data more seamlessly and securely accessible. The aim ha been to improve the secondary use of health data in the EU to enable better health for all.The project ha been led by Sitra and is part of a wider EHDS initiative, where health data would be available on request for both research and for patient care, wherever patient are in Europe.In May 2022, the European Commission issued a proposal for a regulation on the EHDS. The TEHDAS result laid the groundwork for the proposal and the implementation of the regulation.I would like to thank all TEHDAS partner for their hard work and express my gratitude to the member states, the European Commission, stakeholder and external advisor for their valuable input. The impact of the TEHDAS project can be seen in the EHDS proposal, which will benefit Europe for decade to come, explains Markus Kalliola, Project Director at Sitra, who led the European collaborative project. Towards EHDS in collaboration The legislative process is in full swing. Negotiations are ongoing in the European Parliament and in the Council of the European Union. The final legal text is expected in 2024 and, once adopted, will enter into force after a transitional period.The work towards better health and care is not yet complete, but thanks to the TEHDAS project, the secondary use of health data in the EU ha taken a major step forward. This work will continue, focusing on the successful implementation of the EHDS, which will require broad collaboration throughout Europe.The TEHDAS joint action, funded by the EU and 25 countries, ended this July. A follow-up joint action is planned to begin in mid-2024.This TEHDAS report summarises the main finding of the project in a single document to serve European health data stakeholder and the public. European Health Data Space (EHDS) The aim is to make it easier to use European health data across border for patient care, research, policymaking and innovation, such a developing new treatments. The European Commission published a proposal for a regulation on a common European Health Data Space, where health data can be accessed securely and seamlessly across national borders. The negotiation on the proposal are ongoing at the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament. The use of health data is expected to improve care and strengthen the health sector in Europe. Share away! Similar article Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 8 Citizens WP 8 Citizens Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. / / TEHDAS2 project application submitted Published on 02.02.2024 02.02.2024 TEHDAS2 project application submitted The follow-up joint action to the TEHDAS project called the Second joint action towards the European health data space, TEHDAS2, is moving forward. The project proposal wa submitted to the European Commission on 1 February 2024. The project is expected to start in May. The TEHDAS2 is a project of 30 EU country with the mission to bring together the best current knowledge in order to develop, in active cooperation, guideline and technical specification for common use by all member state and the Commission for the implementation of the European health data space (EHDS) on the secondary use of health data. The main objective of the joint action is to prepare the ground for the harmonised implementation of common measures, enabling the secondary use of health data in the proposed EHDS. The project ha been in a planning phase since October 2023. The planning phase ha now been completed and the project application wa submitted to the European Commission on 1 February. Once the application ha been evaluated the project is expected to start on 1 May 2024. Please check the TEHDAS website for updates. Share away! Similar article Published on 12.10.2023. 12.10.2023 Published on 15.06.2023. 15.06.2023 Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. / / Sitra ha been appointed to lead a project of 29 country to realise the European health data space Published on 12.10.2023 12.10.2023 Sitra ha been appointed to lead a project of 29 country to realise the European health data space The European Union is facilitating the safe use of health data across border to develop new treatment and medicines. Sitra-led TEHDAS joint action conducted the preparatory work on the European health data space (EHDS). Member state selected Sitra on 12 October 2023 to coordinate further work in the EU. The Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra ha been selected to lead EU member state joint action on preparing for the reuse of health data a proposed in the EHDS. The country that signed up for the collaboration made the selection.Each member state nominated the organisation that will participate in the project. The member state will work in collaboration with the European Commission to promote the EHDS. The new project support the successful realisation of the EHDS, where data would be available securely on demand across border for patient care (primary use) and for secondary purpose such a research, innovation and policymaking. The foundation and idea for the EU-wide secondary use of health data were developed and promoted in the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space (TEHDAS) that wa also led by Sitra. I would like to thank the member state for their confidence in Sitra. It is a privilege to continue to build on TEHDAS work and contribute to the development of the health sector in Europe together with the member states, say Markus Kalliola, Project Director from Sitra. The new joint action under the EUs fourth Health Programme (EU4Health) will start in 2024 with the participation of 29 European countries. The budget is 6.7 million euro of which 60 per cent is financed by the EU and 40 per cent by the countries. EU4Health fund and support cooperation between EU country and promotes harmonised approaches.More information on way to participate in the joint action will be available on the website a the project progresses. Share away! Similar article Published on 02.02.2024. 02.02.2024 Published on 15.06.2023. 15.06.2023 Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. / / TEHDAS proposal for promoting data altruism in the EHDS Published on 29.09.2023 29.09.2023 TEHDAS proposal for promoting data altruism in the EHDS Data altruism is about the sharing and use of data for the benefit of all, thereby making new data source available for research and innovation. TEHDAS ha developed recommendation to enable voluntary data sharing for the European health data space. A recent report by the EU joint action Towards the European Health Data Space (TEHDAS) present recommendation for policymakers at the EU and national level, and data altruism organisation on how to involve individual in data sharing data altruism in the European health data space (EHDS).Data altruism refers to people and organisation who voluntarily make data available in the public interest, thereby enabling new source of data for secondary purpose such a research and innovation, without seeking reward. An example is health data gathered by an individual smartwatch or other smart devices. Data altruism organisation make data available on a large scale in accordance with the principle of data altruism.The report argues that there is a need to encourage individual involvement in the EHDS and especially in data altruism. Transparency, trust and citizen empowerment are crucial element for public acceptance. Without voluntary data sharing by individuals, there will not be enough rich data available for research, innovation and decision-making.The report make recommendation on how to adopt and harmonise the identified good practice for building national or European health data spaces. The recommendation include: Supporting digital literacy in the society. The shift towards digital tool such a smart device or health application for gathering and analysing health data demand attention to digital skills. Neglecting this could damage public trust. Data altruism organisation should provide incentive to encourage individual and group to participate in making health data available for public interest, such a scientific research. These incentive could include informing individual about how their data ha been used and the result of that use, and recognising their contributions. Data altruism organisation should ensure that high-quality and unbiased data is accessible and available. The report also recommends that they cooperate with academic institutions, non-profits and charity to share best practices. The public and private sector should increase collaboration to provide richer datasets for research. Guidelines for data altruism should be prepared in cooperation with a wide range of stakeholders, such a data altruism organisations, data holder and private sector organisations. The Data Governance Act defines that common rule need to be developed for data altruism organisations, such a a common consent form. Trust on health data altruism organisation depends on their accountability. An essential element for building trust is citizen and patient control over their data, a well a transparency about how and with whom health data is shared, and what the benefit and risk of data sharing are. The recommendation are based on applicable legal instruments, especially the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Data Governance Act (DGA) and the EHDS, and they are in line with the view of stakeholders.This concludes the work of TEHDAS on data altruism. The report ha been approved by the project steering group. The European Commission give final approval to all joint action deliverables. Share away! Similar article Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 26.09.2023. 26.09.2023 Tags: WP 6 Excellence in data quality WP 6 Excellence in data quality Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. / / TEHDAS recommendation to EU and member state to ensure EHDS sustainability Published on 29.09.2023 29.09.2023 TEHDAS recommendation to EU and member state to ensure EHDS sustainability The European Union and it member state are starting to share health data. This will require long-term effort both at national and EU level, covering all aspect of sustainability, including long-term funding. A new report of the joint action Towards the European Health Data Space (TEHDAS) concludes that the sustainability of the European health data space (EHDS) for the secondary use of health data ha several dimension in addition to funding and financing. These include establishing a legal basis and governance, ensuring access to quality data, capacity and competence, a well a trust.The report give an overview of the EU funding option for the EHDS, examines example from Finland, France and the Netherlands, discus the sharing of cost between data holders, health data access body and data users, and look at the available information on cost chargeable to users.The report provides 38 recommendation for member state and the EU to address these different dimension of EHDS sustainability.The recommendation on funding include:The Commission and member state should ensure a smooth interaction between the EHDS regulation and other legislation affecting data use, both in term of EU-level legislation, such a the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Act, a well a national-level legislation. This should be supported by an EU-funded network of future health data access body in member states.Member state and the EU need to agree on the cost-sharing principle for cross-border use of health data. The EU should use varied funding instrument for EU-level work, and consider a later option for the stable maintenance of the central services.The member state need to set up roadmaps that consider the investment in their own national system to make the health data accessible.The resource need should be alleviated by producing open-source tool for the use by member state in European collaboration funded by various EU programmes.Funding by the EU and member state is needed for many actions, such a ensuring broad stakeholder engagement to build trust and to communicate the benefit of the secondary use of health data.TEHDAS hope that the member state and the Commission will benefit from the recommendation when developing plan for the secondary use of health data.This concludes the work of TEHDAS on the sustainability of secondary use of data in the EHDS. The report ha been approved by the project steering group. The European Commission give final approval to all joint action deliverables. Share away! Similar article Published on 29.09.2023. 29.09.2023 Tags: WP 8 Citizens WP 8 Citizens Published on 26.09.2023. 26.09.2023 Tags: WP 6 Excellence in data quality WP 6 Excellence in data quality Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. News Share away! If you feel like it. Filter by package Published on 02.02.2024. 02.02.2024 Published on 12.10.2023. 12.10.2023 Published on 15.06.2023. 15.06.2023 Published on 22.12.2022. 22.12.2022 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 12.12.2022. 12.12.2022 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 30.09.2022. 30.09.2022 Published on 08.07.2022. 08.07.2022 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 05.07.2022. 05.07.2022 Tags: WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability WP 4 Outreach, engagement and sustainability Published on 15.06.2022. 15.06.2022 Published on 12.05.2022. 12.05.2022 Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Data protection Updated on 7 July 2022 The term of use specified on this page are applied to the TEHDAS.eu website maintained by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra and the material presented on the website. Through the form used on the website, we also collect personal data for the TEHDAS Stakeholder Opel Call (specified below under the heading Privacy policy for the TEHDAS Stakeholder Open Call). Terms of Use Purpose of the website The objective of website is to disseminate the view and outcome realised in the work of the Joint Action Towards the European Health Data Space (TEHDAS) project. The website contains news, articles, blogs, publications, description of the project and other similar content. Right of use As a user of this website, you may share the content found on the website page in external web community and service in accordance with the term of use of these community and service a well a with separate term of use applicable to them. When using the comment tool of other community services, the term of use specific to these tool shall apply. Should the user share content outside this website, Sitra or the other TEHDAS project partner will not be responsible for the processing of information subject to third party term of use. As a user, you may copy, distribute and edit content found on the website in accordance with these term of use on the condition that the content producer and source are cited when being used. However, the use of photograph found on this website is prohibited. The sale or use of this website content or any part of it in a manner that diminishes it value or purpose is prohibited. Intellectual property Sitra hold the ownership right of the material and content found on the TEHDAS.eu website, with the exception of material produced by third parties, for which Sitra only hold a right of use. The copyright and other right to these type of texts, image and other third-party material found on this website belong to the producer or registration holder of said materials. Sitra reserve all right to use the registered trademark Sitra and other equivalent intellectual property. Use of these right shall always require the advance written consent of Sitra. Exemption from liability Texts found on this website contain the personal thought and opinion of authors. They are not the official opinion of the organisation represented by these authors. The author are personally responsible for the content of their texts. Under no circumstance shall Sitra be held liable for any indirect or incidental damage or damage that may arise from the use of or confidence in the information and material presented. Sitra shall also not be held liable for any damage caused by an interruption of website use or an inability to access the pages. The TEHDAS.eu website contains web community maintained by the project partner a well a link to website owned or maintained by third parties. By accessing these linked websites, the user hereby agrees to the fact that these page are not under the control of Sitra, nor doe Sitra have any possibility of influencing the content of material created or published on them. The linked website may also be subject to term restricting use, which must be read before using the website. Sitra is in no way responsible for the material contained on third-party websites. Privacy What information do we collect about the user of the website and why? Sitra collect information about the user of it website through Matomo Analytics and Siteimprove service and cookies. A cookie is a small text file sent to the user browser and it usually contains an anonymous identification number. The cookie is not harmful to the terminal device. Some cooky are related to website functions, such a the selection of a graphical or plain text version or enlarging the font size. Others are used for keeping statistic on website use. If you wish, you may decline the use of cooky by changing your browser setting or changing your cookie setting from the link at the bottom of this page. With the help of the cookies, Matomo Analytics and Siteimprove, general statistical information is collected on website use for improving the service. Such information includes the number of visitors, the user country, time spend using the website, the browser used, the content accessed by the visitor and the website from which the visitor accessed the service. An individual user is identified using the data stored in Matomo and Siteimprove, but the data cannot be used to connect the individual to a natural person. For more information on Matomo Analytics, please visit . You can find more information on Siteimprove at . You can refuse the collection of data by adjusting your cookie setting from the link at the bottom of this page. The term of use and other condition of the third party concerned are applied to service offered or application supplied by a third party on Sitras website. Possible change and the applicable law These term of use shall enter into force on 1 March 2021 and remain in effect until further notice. Information about possible change to the term of use will always be displayed on this page. With the exception of it choice of law provisions, Finnish law shall apply to any dispute arising from these term of use a well a the content or use of the sitra.fi website. Privacy policy for the TEHDAS Stakeholder Open Call 1 Controller Controller of the register:Sitra, the Finnish Innovation Fund (business ID 0202132-3) Contact person in matter concerning the register:Taru RyskeProject Coordinator Sitra, the Finnish Innovation FundAddress: Itmerenkatu 11-13, PO Box 160, FI-00181 HelsinkiTel: +358294618 991Email: kirjaamo@sitra.fi Data Protection Officer:Janika SkaffariSpecialist, Administrationkirjaamo@sitra.fi 2 Name of the register TEHDAS Stakeholder Open Call 3 Purpose of personal data processing The Joint Action Towards the European Health Data Space (TEHDAS) is inviting stakeholder to join the project. TEHDAS ha opened a Stakeholder Open Call to involve the stakeholder from Europe in the project. Sitra shall process personal data for the purpose of selecting expert for the group or forum and arrangement concerning events, workshop and meetings. Sitra shall also process personal data in connection withothercommunicationtargeted atinterest group and collaborationpartners, such a surveys, informing and reporting (e.g. newsletters), call for ideas, a well a providing information on them and marketing them to the target audience. 4 Legal basis for personal data processing Sitra process personal data based on consent. 5 Data content of the register (processed personal data categories) The register contains the following personal data about stakeholders. The data in section (a) to (d) are collected about all data subject and the data in section (e) to (g) are collected when necessary. (a) The person (data subjects) basic data, such a name, telephone number, e-mail address, (b) Data on the person (data subjects) work and position, such a title, education, place of work (organisation) and job title, (c) Data on the person (data subjects) professional knowledge, skill and networks, (d) Data on the person (data subjects) consent to the data processing, (e) Direct marketing permission and prohibition expressed by the person (data subject). (f) Data related to communication between the data subject and Sitra, such a subscription to newsletter and other lists, registration for and participation in event and meetings, a well a any correspondence that may be necessary for maintaining the interest group relationship. In addition to the above-mentioned personal data, the register may contain the following personal data on person (data subjects) who use Sitras information system that require identification. (g) Transactions in electronic information system for a restricted period of time (opened page/file, time stamp, user ID and IP address). 6 Regular data source Personal data shall be collected from the data subject. 7 Personal data retention period The collected data shall be retained only for the duration and to the extent necessary for the original or compatible purpose for which the data wa compiled. In addition, the data listed below shall be retained a per the following retention periods. (a) The basic data on the data subject contained by the register shall be retained a long a is necessary for approval of the expert for the group or forum. (b) Stakeholders (data subjects) personal data related to the organisation of a meeting or other similar occasion organised by Sitra shall be retained for the duration project. The data on participant of meeting organised by Sitra are archived. Sitra shall regularly ass the need to retain the data a per the internal Code of Conduct. Furthermore, Sitra shall perform all possible and required measure to ensure that such personal data that are inaccurate, erroneous or outdated for the purpose of processing are deleted or corrected without delay. 8 Recipients of personal data (recipient categories) and the regular disclosure of data The personal data contained in the register shall be disclosed to third person or organisation a follows. Disclosing personal data to TEHDAS Competent Authorities (26). In TEHDAS joint action there are three type of Competent Authorities: 14 country are represented by their ministry of health, 8 country by their national health institution and the rest by either regional agency or other type of public bodies. Personal data may be disclosed for the purpose of reviewing and selecting the stakeholders, communication purpose and for work related to different Forums and Groups during TEHDAS Joint Action. Bunderministerium fr Arbeit, Soziales, Gesundheit und Konsumentenschutz (ATNA), Austria Sciensano, Belgium Ministerstvo na Zdraveopazvaneto (MoH-BG), Bulgaria Hrvatski Zavod za Zdravstveno Osiguranje HZZO (CHIF), Croatia Ministry of Health of the Republic of Cyprus (MoH-CY), Cyprus Ministerstvo Zdravotnictvi Ceske Republiky (MZCR), Czech Republic Region Midtjylland (RM), Denmark Sotsiaalministeerium Estonian Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA), Estonia Plateforme de donne de sant (FR-HDH), France Bundesministerium fr Gesundheit (BMG), Germany Dioikisi 6is Ygeionomikis Perifereias Peloponnisou Ionion Nyson Ipeirou Kai Dytikis Elladas (6th Y. PE.), Greece OKF Orszgos Krhz Figazgatsgba, National Healthcare Service Center (AEEK), Hungary Department of Health (DoH-IE), Ireland Ministero Della Salute (MINSAL), Italy Lietuvos Reespublikos Sveikatos Apsaugos Ministerija (SAM-LT), Lithuania Ministry for Health Government of Malta (DHIR), Malta Agentia de Transplant (ATRM), Moldova Ministerie van Volksgezondheit, Welzijn en Sport (VWS), Netherlands The Norwegian Ministry of Health and Care Services (MoH-NO), Norway Servicos Partilhados do Ministerio da Saude Epe (SPMS), Portugal Institut za Zastitu Zdravlja Srbijedr Milan Jovanovic Batut (IPHS Batut), Serbia Nacionalni Institut za Javno Zdravje (NIJZ), Slovenia Instituto Aragones de Ciencias de la Salud (IACS), Spain E-Halsomyndigheten (SEHA), Sweden NHS Confederation (NHSC), United Kingdom 9 Transferring data outside of the EU or the EEA The data contained in the register may be transferred outside of the EU or the EEA. When transferring personal data, Sitra observes the model contract clause approved by the European Commission concerning the transfer of personal data to third countries, implement other appropriate protection measure a necessary or ensures that the adequate level of data protection is guaranteed in the third country. 10 Register protection principle Any physical data material containing personal data shall be retained in a locked facility that can only be accessed by appointed person whose duty require access authority. The database containing personal data are on server which are kept in locked facility that can only be accessed by appointed person whose duty require access authority. The server are protected by an appropriate firewall and technical protection. The database and system can only be accessed with separately granted personal user IDs and passwords. Sitra ha restricted the access right and the authorisation to access the data system and other medium in such a way that the data can only be accessed and processed by person who are needed with regard to lawful processing. In addition, the database and system transaction are registered in the log of Sitras IT systems. Sitras employee and other personnel have undertaken to comply with the obligation of secrecy and to keep confidential the information they receive in connection with the personal data processing. 11 Rights of the data subject The data subject shall have the following right laid down in the EUs General Data Protection Regulation. (a) The right to obtain from the controller confirmation a to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the following information: (i) the purpose of the processing; (ii) the category of personal data concerned; (iii) the recipient or recipient group to whom personal data have been disclosed or will be disclosed; (iv) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, if not possible, the criterion used to determine that period; (v) the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject or to object to such processing; (vi) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; (vii) where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any available information a to their source; (viii) the existence of automatic decision-making and relevant information about the logic related to such processing, a well a the relevance of this processing and it possible consequence for the data subject. (b) The right to cancel consent at any time without this affecting the lawfulness of the processing performed on the basis of the consent. (c) The right to demand that the controller rectify without undue delay any inaccurate and erroneous personal data on the data subject and the right to have incomplete personal data completed. (d) The right to obtain from the controller the erasure of the personal data concerning the data subject without undue delay in situation determined in the EUs General Data Protection Regulation. (e) The right to obtain from the controller restriction of processing in situation determined in the EUs General Data Protection Regulation. (f) The right to receive the personal data concerning him or her, which the data subject ha provided to Sitra, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format and the right to transmit those data to another controller without hindrance from the controller to which the personal data have been provided, if the processing is based on the consent referred to in the Regulation and the processing is carried out automatically. (g) The right to file a complaint with the supervisory authority if the data subject considers that the processing of the personal data concerning him or her violates the EUs General Data Protection Regulation. Requests concerning the realization of the data subject right shall be addressed to Sitras contact person mentioned in Section 1. 12 Making change to the privacy policy We reserve the right to alter this privacy policy by notifying of any change on our website. The change may be based on change in legislation and other similar reasons. We recommend that you read the content of the privacy policy regularly. Cookie declaration Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains. Accessibility statement 1 March 2021 Accessibility statement: TEHDAS.eu The Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra and the other TEHDAS project partner are committed to maintaining an accessible website. We will ensure that this website TEHDAS.eu and all new information on it achieves Level AA conformance to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1, to comply with the EU Web Accessibility Directive. This website wa first published in March 2021 and currently ha the conformance rating AA to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1. Our most recent web accessibility testing for this website wa in March 2021 when the site wa first launched. The accessibility testing wa carried out by our partner Genero. When building this website, need of all audience were considered: the website is compatible with screen reader for the visually impaired and when producing our content we aim to use clear language. We gladly welcome feedback on the accessibility of this website. Please get in touch with u by sending u an email at . Coordinated by the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra The content of this website represents the view of the author only and is his/her sole responsibility; it cannot be considered to reflect the view of the European Commission and/or the Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency, or any other body of the European Union. The European Commission and the Agency do not accept any responsibility for use that may be made of the information it contains.