DARWIN EU delivers real-world evidence from across Europe on diseases, population and the us and performance of medicines. This enables EMA and national competent authority in the European medicine regulatory network to use these data whenever needed throughout the lifecycle of a medicinal product. About Data Home The (EMA) and the established a coordination centre to provide timely and reliable evidence on the use, safety and effectiveness of medicine for human use, including vaccines, from real world healthcare database across the European Union (EU).This capability is called the Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU). Expression of Interest Call now open for Data Partners. More information can be found . Latest News European Health Data Space DARWIN EU will connect the European medicine regulatory network to the European Commission's European Health How to join the data network? The Open Call for DPs described in this document welcome expression of interest from any data custodian in Data Network A strategic priority for DARWIN EU is to expand the scope of the network for generation of new evidence supporting the What will DARWIN EU deliver? DARWIN EU delivers real-world evidence from across Europe on diseases, population and the us and performance of medicines. This enables EMA and in the to use these data whenever needed throughout the lifecycle of a . DARWIN EU support regulatory decision-making by: establishing and expanding a catalogue of observational data source for use in medicine regulation; providing a source of high-quality, validated real world data on the uses, safety and of medicines; addressing specific question by carrying out high-quality, non-interventional studies, including developing scientific protocols, interrogating relevant data source and interpreting and reporting study results. The range of approved healthcare database enabling distributed data access via DARWIN EU will evolve and expand over time. The former HMA/EMA Big Data Task Force originally recommended developing DARWIN EU. The creation of DARWIN EU feature in the EMA-HMA Big Data Steering Group workplan and the European medicine agency network strategy to 2025. For more information: Timelines In February 2022, EMA selected a service provider (Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam) to deliver DARWIN EU, following a call for tender. In 2022 and 2023, the service provider will: set up DARWIN EU's operational process and governance structures; run study with data from DARWIN EU, to support EMA scientific committee and down-stream decision-makers in their decision-making and support the establishment of the EHDS. In 2024, EMA expects DARWIN EU to be fully operational. At this stage, DARWIN EU will routinely support the evaluation work of EMA's scientific committee and the . Organisations such a the , and payer may make use of DARWIN EU in the longer term. Figure 1: Overview of DARWIN EU timeline 2021 Project initiation Select service provider to deliver the DARWIN EUCoordination Centre Establish DARWIN EU Advisory Board Support EDHS pilot 2022 DARWIN EU establishment Define governance structures, contract model and process Run early study to support EMA committee Provide first catalogue of real world data source and standard analysis Establish connectivity with EHDS 2023 Developing and using DARWIN EU Launch publicly-available DARWIN EU website Work with established data permit authority Test business process to access and analyse healthcare data Run study to support more EMA committee 2024 Full operation mode Conduct study and answer question to support EMA scientific committee and DARWIN EUfully operational with involvement of data partner and medicine regulator 2025 Leverage the EU Health Data Space Increase geographical coverage, scope and regulatory us of healthcare data in DARWIN EU Related content External link Related document List item First published: 12/03/2021 EMA/48625/2021 List item First published: 20/01/2020 EMA/520966/2019 List item First published: 21/12/2020 Last Updated: 15 December 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Home The (EMA) and the established a coordination centre to provide timely and reliable evidence on the use, safety and effectiveness of medicine for human use, including vaccines, from real world healthcare database across the European Union (EU).This capability is called the Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU). Expression of Interest Call now open for Data Partners. More information can be found . Latest News European Health Data Space DARWIN EU will connect the European medicine regulatory network to the European Commission's European Health How to join the data network? The Open Call for DPs described in this document welcome expression of interest from any data custodian in Data Network A strategic priority for DARWIN EU is to expand the scope of the network for generation of new evidence supporting the What will DARWIN EU deliver? DARWIN EU delivers real-world evidence from across Europe on diseases, population and the us and performance of medicines. This enables EMA and in the to use these data whenever needed throughout the lifecycle of a . DARWIN EU support regulatory decision-making by: establishing and expanding a catalogue of observational data source for use in medicine regulation; providing a source of high-quality, validated real world data on the uses, safety and of medicines; addressing specific question by carrying out high-quality, non-interventional studies, including developing scientific protocols, interrogating relevant data source and interpreting and reporting study results. The range of approved healthcare database enabling distributed data access via DARWIN EU will evolve and expand over time. The former HMA/EMA Big Data Task Force originally recommended developing DARWIN EU. The creation of DARWIN EU feature in the EMA-HMA Big Data Steering Group workplan and the European medicine agency network strategy to 2025. For more information: Timelines In February 2022, EMA selected a service provider (Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam) to deliver DARWIN EU, following a call for tender. In 2022 and 2023, the service provider will: set up DARWIN EU's operational process and governance structures; run study with data from DARWIN EU, to support EMA scientific committee and down-stream decision-makers in their decision-making and support the establishment of the EHDS. In 2024, EMA expects DARWIN EU to be fully operational. At this stage, DARWIN EU will routinely support the evaluation work of EMA's scientific committee and the . Organisations such a the , and payer may make use of DARWIN EU in the longer term. Figure 1: Overview of DARWIN EU timeline 2021 Project initiation Select service provider to deliver the DARWIN EUCoordination Centre Establish DARWIN EU Advisory Board Support EDHS pilot 2022 DARWIN EU establishment Define governance structures, contract model and process Run early study to support EMA committee Provide first catalogue of real world data source and standard analysis Establish connectivity with EHDS 2023 Developing and using DARWIN EU Launch publicly-available DARWIN EU website Work with established data permit authority Test business process to access and analyse healthcare data Run study to support more EMA committee 2024 Full operation mode Conduct study and answer question to support EMA scientific committee and DARWIN EUfully operational with involvement of data partner and medicine regulator 2025 Leverage the EU Health Data Space Increase geographical coverage, scope and regulatory us of healthcare data in DARWIN EU Related content External link Related document List item First published: 12/03/2021 EMA/48625/2021 List item First published: 20/01/2020 EMA/520966/2019 List item First published: 21/12/2020 Last Updated: 15 December 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutWho is Involved? Who is involved? DARWIN EU ha multiple actors: , , , and . Data Partners DARWIN EU collaborates with data partner who help generate real-world evidence that can be used in scientific evaluation and regulatory decision-making. Data partner are partner who have access to raw data in-house or remotely, through ownership, public contract, third-party agreement or commercial license. Data partner enable DARWIN EU to use their data in it scientific study by executing analytic packages, and provide analysis result to the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre, in accordance with data protection and governancerules. For more information see the page. Coordination Centre The ha a key function in DARWIN EU. The CC provides a structure for developing and managing the network of data partners, including their training on process and study methods, evaluating their eligibility for performing studies, and monitoring the data quality. The CC will also be responsible for implementing and operating all the step in the , from feasibility request for study up until the final delivery of the study report to the EMA, where result are to be integrated within the EU regulatory decision making process. In addition, the Coordination Centre will be responsible for methodological development for DARWIN EU, a directed and instructed by EMA, and to interact with other relevant initiatives. The Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam wa selected a contractor in a public tendering procedure published in June 2021 to setup the Coordination Centre for the EMA. For more information see the page. European Medicines Agency The is responsible for providing leadership and direction, setting standard for DARWIN EU, contracting, instructing and overseeing the Coordination Centre and monitoring it performance. For question raised by the EU Medicines Regulatory Network requiring additional evidence to support regulatory decision-making, the EMA will coordinate the definition of the research question and define, with the requesting body, the study objective and possible study design option such a the study population, exposures, outcome and statistical measures. This information will be communicated to the Cordination Centre for a further feasibility assessment. Based on the feasibility assessment, the EMA, in consultation with the Cordination Centre, will decide on the relevance of conducting a study, specify eligibility criterion for the database to be included, identify relevant database and define the evidentiary standard to be applied in the study (e.g., data quality). The EMA will process the result of the analysis and the report of specific studies, feeding result into decision-making, a appropriate. To support the establishment of the DARWIN EU, a ha been set up by EMA. EU Medicines Regulatory Network The EU Medicines Regulatory Network includes the EMA (encompassing it scientific committee and working parties), national competent authority (NCAs) of Member States in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the European Commission. During the operation of DARWIN EU, the need for additional real-world evidence identified within the EU Medicines Regulatory Network to support regulatory activity will be submitted to and further discussed with EMA. Other Organisations Interactions between EMA and other organisations, institution and project can take place to improve the infrastructure, methodological standard and operational process of the DARWIN EU network. These interaction could take place with, for example: the (EHDS), of which DARWIN EU will be a key user and will need to be fully integrated and use the service provided by the EHDS; ongoing EU and national project in scope of DARWIN EU and relevant to the quality, transformation, maintenance or analysis of real-world datasets, including European networking initiative such a the (EHDEN) project, European platform for registry or the European Reference Networks (ERNs), which ha established registry platform for rare diseases; the (ENCePP) network, for integration and continuously updating of good methodological practice in pharmacoepidemiology, identification of data source and registration of studies; regulatory authority in third countries, to learn from their experience and to integrate learning such a governance and methodological aspects. Last Updated: 26 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutCoordination Centre Coordination Centre EMA is working with Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam to: establish theDARWIN EUCoordination Centre, and support it work to build a distributed data network; conduct scientific study and answer research question supporting regulatory decision-making by EMA's scientific committee and the ; maintain a catalogue of real world data source for use in the regulatory context and their metadata. The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre will be a key user of the future . The contract to establish the Coordination Centre wa awarded to Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam following a call for tender for a service provider published in June 2021. The group at the Department of Medical Informatics is leading the Establishment and Operational Phase of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre. Organisational Structure The DARWIN EU CC exists to run study within it data partner network, overseen by the Study and Network Operations pillars, respectively. These pillar are able to execute study and onboard Data Partners using tool (such a code and protocols) that have been created by the Development pillar and within an infrastructure that ha been created by the Technology pillar. The Technology pillar is also responsible for producing necessary project resources, such a the website and service desk. The overall operation of DARWIN EU is overseen by the Management pillar and with guidance from the Advisory Boards. Leadership Erasmus MC Executive Director Technology Pillar Lead Erasmus MC, Oxford University Deputy Director Development Pillar Lead Erasmus MC Deputy Director Study Operations Pillar Lead Synapse Research Management Partners Management Pillar Lead Erasmus MC Network Operations Pillar Lead Additional Members of the core team , Development Pillar Co-lead , MSc, Analytics Team Co-lead , Study Operations Co-lead , Technology Pillar Co-lead , Management Pillar Co-lead , Management Team Lead In addition, a large team of data scientists, epidemiologist and programmer are working for the Coordination Centre at Erasmus MC and it subcontractors. Contributing Organisations Organisation: Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC Description: The Erasmus University Medical Center is the largest of the eight university medical center in The Netherlands. The Department of Medical Informatics, chaired by Prof. dr. ir. Peter Rijnbeek, is an interdisciplinary research group within Erasmus MC that study new method for acquiring, representing, processing, and managing data and knowledge in health care and biomedical science and ha developed land marking infrastructure and software for distributed analysis of electronic health records. The Health Data Science research line of Prof. Rijnbeek is leading the , and the (EHDEN). The mission of the group is to produce clinically actionable insight from observational health data by enabling data-driven healthcare. Improved interoperability of data is a necessary pre-requisite for this mission. Learn more at Organisation: Clinical Investigation and Translational Science, NDORMS, University of Oxford Description: The Clinical Investigation and Translational Science division at the Botnar Research Centre (NDORMS, University of Oxford) includes the Clinical Trial Design and Medical Statistics and the Health Data Science sections. The Health Data Science section, led by Prof Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, includes a multidisciplinary team of over 30 staff and student with expertise in data sciences, engineering, epidemiology, and real world evidence. Learn more at: Organisation: Synapse Research Management Partners Description: Synapse is a firm specialized in the high quality management of complex research and development project in the biomedical sector. Synapse partner with national and international organisations, both public and private (pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, research institutes, academia, hospitals, etc.). Synapse ha a track record on research project that are highly innovative (open innovation, public private partnerships), large (with several million Euros funding), distributed (built on the collaboration of several institutions) and internationally oriented (with broad expertise in project funded by the European Commission). Learn more at . Organisation: Description: IQVIA is a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and clinical research service to the health sector across the globe. IQVIA creates intelligent connection across all aspect of healthcare through it analytics, transformative technology, big data resource and extensive domain expertise. IQVIA delivers powerful insight with speed and agility enabling life science industry customer to accelerate the clinical development and commercialization of innovative medical treatment and enabling government to ass and improve public health and population management, all leading to improved patient outcomes. With approximately 86,000 employees, IQVIA conduct operation in more than 100 countries. Learn more at . Organisation: The Hyve Description: The Hyve is an IT company that provides professional service for open source software. We specialize in the field of cancer genomics, translational data warehousing, real world data analytics and research data management. Our customer include the majority of top 20 pharmaceutical companies, major academic medical center in U.S. and Europe a well a biobanks, registry and patient organization throughout the world. Learn more at Organisation: Odysseus Data Services, Inc. Description: Odysseus is an established real-world evidence (RWE) solution provider enabling standardized systematic analytics of observational data at scale. Odysseus providing it customer with Software, Data Engineering and Data Science solution supporting large-scale RWE generation. Odysseus is an active OHDSI contributor in multiple key initiative and working groups, including design and development of such OHDSI platform a ATLAS/WebAPI, ARACHNE and ATHENA, OMOP CDM standards, curating and maintaining OMOP standard vocabulary a well a development of OHDSI analytical method (HADES) and OHDSI distributed network research. Odysseus created the ARACHNE platform with a goal of linking multiple distributed life science and healthcare organization into a single network to enable standardized federated analytics of observational data. Learn more at Data Partners The CC ha set up an agreement with a growing list of Data Partners to create it distributed network of data sources. More information about the Data Partners can be found on page. Last Updated: 12 May 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutPrinciples & Policies Principles & Policies Table of content Data Protection The DARWIN EU Coordination Center (CC) executes study in it distributed data network using a federated approach in which analytical code is shared with the data partner and only aggregated study result are shared with the CC. In this privacy-by-design approach additional measure can be added, for example a minimum cell count, to comply to local governance rules. With each data partner an is setup that includes information about this procedure. More information about study execution can be found . The latest version of the Record of Processing Activities (ROPA) can be found under below. For more information also see the . Cookie Policy At the DARWIN EU Coordination Center website,we use cooky to enablethe technical functioning of thiswebsite.In addition, if you consent to it, we use cooky to collect your browsing experience on our website. This enables u tocollect anonymous statistic to help u improve our website and services. For more information see the in this website. Conflict of Interest The study and analysis conducted in DARWIN EU shall be conducted in accordance with the principle of scientific independence, a set out under the According to ENCePP, scientific independence mean that: the primary purpose of the study shall be to generate evidence of potential scientific or public health importance and not to promote the use of a medicinal product or any specific outcome; the design of the research shall aim at minimising any potential bias; any financial, commercial, institutional, or personal interest in a particular outcome of the study (i.e., in the result and their interpretation) at the level of the organisation(s) initiating or funding the study and of the coordinating study entity and/or the researcher(s) conducting the study, shall not influence any decision on the scientific aspect of the study in any direction, including data collection and analysis, interpretation and dissemination of the study results. Where relevant, the definition and principle set out under shall also be applied. Related content Related document List item First published: 18/03/2023 EMA/51069/2023 List item First published: 18/03/2023 Last Updated: 27 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutEuropean Health Data Space European Health Data Space DARWIN EU will connect the to the European Commission's , an initiative to promote better exchange and access to different type of health data. While the need and use case of medicine regulator and decision-makers will drive DARWIN EU's development, DARWIN EU also contributes to developing the EHDS and the joint action to deliver European principle for the secondary use of health data, known a . Acting a an early flagship 'pathfinder' for the EHDS, DARWIN EU will enable the exchange of healthcare data for use in healthcare delivery, policy-making and research across Europe, while fully complying with data protection requirements. EHDS HealthData@EU Pilot Recently, the EHDS2 Pilot Project wa initiated which will run till September 2024. This project is led by the French Health Data Hub (HDH)a French organisation that aim to ensure easy, unified, transparent and secure access to health data to improve quality of care and support for patients. Multiple consortium are involved in the EHDS pilot, from EU agency (EMA included), national platform and international research infrastructures. The consortium will aim to answer the European Commissions call for project to concretely test the EHDS in practice by creating a network of data platform at European level, by conducting cross-border research use cases, and provide recommendation for the future EHDS. The pilot project will create the first European network for secondary use of data projects, containing a metadata search portal, data access request portal and other central services. Within the network, project leader will be able to querymetadata catalogue of all node and ask for data access in several node with a single data application form. EMA will be an authorised participant and consortium partner within the EHDS2 pilot project. EMAs use case on thrombosis (see below) will aim to leverage DARWIN EU, among other platforms. DARWIN EU and the EHDS2 pilot are two complementary and synergetic project for the secondary use of health data. EMA Use Case EMAs use case will aim to investigate the natural history of coagulopathy and use of antithrombotic agent in COVID-19 patient and person vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2. The study ha previously been conducted via the EMA Framework Contract and the result of this study may be used for benchmarking (). This is an important use case that will test the wayDARWIN EU will be integrated in EHDS in the future. Six specific objective of the study were presented, increasing in levelof complexity, which will be chosen by data partner while considering their capability and the data they hold. It will be important to evaluate how the data from the different node will be combined, considering data available in the Common Data Model (CDM) via DARWIN EU and data available in other node in native format. It wa also clarified that the CDM is not a pre-requisite for becoming a node in the EHDS pilot. In the future, some data sources, such a some registriesfor example will not be converted into a CDM. The objective will be to see how the different data source can be combined in a single study in a meaningful way. For more information: Last Updated: 27 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutWebinars DARWIN EU: multi-stakeholder information webinar Date: 24-02-2022 Location:Online, 10:30 - 12:00 Amsterdam time (CET) Event summary EMA organised a multi-stakeholder information webinar to: introduce DARWIN EU and the recently appointed Coordination Centre; highlight opportunity for collaboration and answer stakeholder questions. Video recording Documents Last Updated: 10 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutCareers Careers The Coordination Centre regularly ha open position for example for Programmers, Epidemiologists, and Data Scientist to join the DARWIN EU team. These will be posted on this page. Feel free to contact the Coordination Centre by email if you like more information: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Last Updated: 18 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data DataData Network Data Network A strategic priority for DARWIN EU is to expand the scope of the network for generation of new evidence supporting the benefit-risk decision making by the EU Regulatory Network. In collaboration with EMA and the Scientific Panel, the Coordination Centre shall seek to identify new data partner and data source and integrate new infrastructure and technique into the network of data partners. The data partner enable DARWIN EU to use their data in it scientific studies, and provide analysis result to the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre, in accordance with data protection rules. They can be part of the data network directly or through a Data Permit Authority, a shown in the figure below. DARWIN EU is expected to bring on board a minimum of ten data source every year. The following requirement are defined for candidate data sources: Data source collecting health data routinely and representative of the different type of real-world data in term of data elements, setting (primary & secondary care), population and origin (e.g. electronic health care records, claims) Data source which collectively provide a broad geographical coverage Data source containing patient-level data with a unique patient identifier linking all record relating to a given patient Medicines prescribed or dispensed identifiable with quantity (e.g. doses, package size) and date allowing to calculate cumulative dos and duration of use and linked to individual but unidentifiable patient Clinical event formally coded, with accurate date and linked to individual but unidentifiable patient Data already converted or planned to be converted into a common data model with access toreal-world healthcare data from source such ashospitals, primary care, health insurance, registriesandbiobanks. Data Sources were selected after consultation with the DARWIN EU Advisory Board andfollowing the prioritisation criterion below: Continuous data collection (at least annual data updates) A lag time of le than six month in data availability for analysis and capture of health outcome and medicine prescribing or dispensing Data converted into the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) common data model The current list of Data Sources: N Data Partner Data Source Country 1 Centre hospitalier universitaire de Bordeaux France 2 University of Oxford United Kingdom 3 University of Tartu Estonia 4 Consorci Mar Parc de Salut Barcelona (PSMar), together with Fundacio Institut Hospital del Mar dInvestigacions Mediques (IMIM) Spain 5 Mieur Implementation and Exploitation B.V The Netherlands 6 IQVIA Solutions BV Germany 7 IQVIA Solutions BV Belgium 8 Integraal Kankercentrum Nederland The Netherlands 9 Fundacion Instituto Universitario para la Investigacion en Atencion Primaria de Salud Jordi Gol i Gurina (IDIAPJGol) Spain 10 Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (Finland) Finland 11 Clinical Academic Center Egas Moniz Health Alliance Portugal 12 Croatian Institute of Public Health Croatia 13 University of Oslo Norway 14 Semmelweis University Hungary 15 Health Data Hub France 16 University of Oxford United Kingdom 17 Unidade Local de Sade de Matosinhos Portugal 18 FISABIO Spain 19 Agencia Espaola de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios (AEMPS) Spain 20 Danish Health Data Registries Danish Health Data Registries (*Onboarding in progress) Denmark Related document List item First published: 06/03/2024 Last Updated: 22 April 2024 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data DataWhy join the network? Why join the data network? The role of a DARWIN EU Data Partner DPs that are part of the DARWIN EU network will maintain a relationship with the CC, realised in two different ways: DPs will be active study participant and co-author results. DPs who are onboarded will be eligible to participate in study undertaken in DARWIN EU. This mean that, after a feasibility assessment ha been completed, they may be invited to study and, if agreeing to participate, run centrally-developed code to return aggregated result to the CC for integration and reporting. However, DPs are more than data provider who are just running common analytics and returning results: they are the expert in their database and can contribute to all aspect of the study including design, quality control, and dissemination of results. We therefore believe that suitably experienced DPs should be able to opt-in for multiple role in a study, including scientific and epidemiological expertise and report/publication development. This is also important for the necessary capacity building, so DARWIN EU can scale up to facilitate the completion of study in parallel in it operational phase. It is expected that participating DPs will co-author publication resulting from the corresponding studies. DPs will receive DARWIN EU training. We will provide periodic training and workshops, in part offered via remote learning environments, so that DPs are aware of the latest best practice in data use and management, study development and method and tools. Onboarded DPs will be expected to actively participate in a thriving DARWIN EU community, which will allow exchange of experience and opportunity for continuing improvement and growth. What are the benefit for DARWIN EU DPs? Working for the benefit of the EMA and EMRN with the generation of real-world evidence critical for medicine regulation at the European level, for example on diseases, patient populations, and the use, safety and effectiveness of medicines, including vaccines, throughout the lifecycle of a medicinal product. Supporting decision-making on the use, safety and effectiveness of medicines, from which a wide range of stakeholder will benefit, from patient and healthcare professional through to health technology assessment body and the pharmaceutical industry. Participation in high-impact publication derived from study undertaken in DARWIN EU. Assurance of scientific independence, freedom to decline studies, respect for each institution own approval procedures. Facilitated scientific collaboration, connection with peer and learning by becoming part of a thriving academic/medical/regulatory network and community. Increased external visibility for the DPs data, expanding opportunity to participate in other studies, joint research project and grant proposal beyond DARWIN EU, helping the long-term sustainability of the DP. Boosted opportunity to participate in other international study for larger regulatory impact, which will provide an invaluable resource to prepare for and respond to future healthcare crisis and pandemics. Improved interoperability and understanding of own data, enhancing data partner internal decision-making processes, with potential to propagate learning inside institution to enhance procedure and generally improve the underlying healthcare systems. Added possibility for auditing/refining/visualising own data through open source tooling understanding own data set better, including integrative analyses, revealing the potential flaw for continued improvement. Increased transparency of analysis and reproducibility, enabling study to be easily transposed to other data source for multiplied impact (e.g., in publications). Increased speed of performing studies, improved performance, accelerated research (months/years to weeks): allowing DPs to undertake more study in le time, with le resources. Access to a training platform on data standardisation, quality control, and analytics by the Coordination Centre. Exposure to and collaborative experience with world-class expert in real-world evidence generation using the OMOP CDM. Last Updated: 27 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data DataHow to join the network? How to join the data network? The Open Call for DPs described in this document welcome expression of interest from any data custodian in Europe wishing to be considered a a candidate DP for DARWIN EU. These include primary and secondary care data sources, claim databases, biobanks, etc. Being open to any data source, the Open Call is an instrument to facilitate a level playing field to any interested institution to participate in DARWIN EU and aim to compile relevant information from candidate Data Partners to support decision making by the EMA to determine which DPs will be formally invited to join the initiative. How to express interest? The process is simple. DPs interested need to provide information on their data source(s) through an Expression of Interest (EoI) form. At the moment, this form is an Excel spreadsheet, which is accessible here: Potential DPs should download the form and complete it offline. Once the form is duly completed, it must be sent by an authorised representative (i.e. person in the institution with authority to submit such applications) to the following email address: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. What happens after submission of the Expression of Interest? Upon receipt, the CC will acknowledge receipt by email reply to the sender. Each Expression of Interest correctly received will be checked by the CC for completeness, consistency and scope. Expressions of Interest that are deemed to be incomplete, inconsistent, or out of scope will be rejected at that stage, and the candidate informed correspondingly within two week from the receipt date. Rejected submission due to lack of completeness or consistency can be re-submitted after correcting the EoI. All other EoIs will become part of a list of interested potential DPs. This list will be reviewed by the CC and the EMA at least twice a year, corresponding to EoIs received on or before the following date every year: 30th April 31st October Although these are deemed to be the ordinary cut-off dates, the CC and the EMA reserve the right of reviewing application at any point in time, depending on the need of the network and forthcoming studies.Following a request from the EMA, the CC may announce the termination of this Open Call for DPs. The review process will examine all Expressions of Interest and consider factor such a type of data, size, geographical representativeness, added value to the network, perceived data quality, governance procedures, coverage of specific populations, past experience in studies, potential intention to convert data to or status of the mapping to the OMOP CDM, etc., and will result in a short list of DPs to be approached. Final decision on the short list rest with the EMA considering the current and future need for studies. Shortlisted DPs may then be approached by the CC to discus outstanding question with CC/EMA experts, or be directly invited to initiate the formal onboarding process, which consist of several step and finish with the signature of an agreement with the CC (see ), which signal the official participation in DARWIN EU a a Data Partner. It is important to note that no guarantee are given to any candidate DP a regard their selection or effective incorporation into DARWIN EU until the onboarding process is successfully completed and the agreement with the CC ha been signed. Conversely, submission of an EoI is non-binding for candidate DPs, and they may withdraw from the selection process if no longer interested. All received EoIs will remain in the list of interested potential DPs (unless the applicant express a wish to be removed through the email address mentioned above) and can be shortlisted in any review round. Additionally, the Expression of Interest form allows DPs to explicitly agree that the information they submit is automatically included in the public EMA Metadata Catalogue of data sources, increasing their discoverability to researcher for the conduct of other scientific studies. FAQ Open Calls No. To be considered a a candidate DP, the first step is to submit an Expression of Interest. Yes, unless duly justified, in which case an appropriate justification should be included. The information contained in the EoI will primarily be used for the purpose of evaluating candidacy to formally become a DARWIN EU Data Partner. You can access the associated Data Protection Notice . Additionally, by providing consent in response to a specific question in the EoI form, you a the potential DP agree that your EoI information will be used to populate the EU Metadata Catalogue, which is an EMA initiative to help improve data discoverability and transparency. The Catalogue is intended for public use, and you can read it associated Data Protection Notice No, this is a continuously open call, but please bear in mind the cut-off date (30th April, 31st October) for review and selection. No. The CC may contact you to clarify certain aspect of your datasets or EoI, or to invite you to initiate the formal onboarding process. Until the latter is successfully completed and an agreement signed, you are not a DARWIN EU DP. The onboarding process consists of several quality and technical check to ensure readiness for DARWIN EU studies, plus explanation of the term and condition for participation and agreement on the legal provision that will apply to the relationship between you and the CC. Its duration can vary between 1 and 2 months, ordinarily. No. The onboarding process ha to be successfully completed and an agreement with the CC ha to be signed. Related document List item First published: 18/12/2023 List item First published: 26/03/2023 Last Updated: 18 December 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Methods Methods DARWIN EU will implement the necessary paradigm shift for the delivery of reliable evidence for regulatory decision-making on the utilisation, safety and effectiveness of medicinal product throughout their lifecycle. DARWIN EU will significantly scale up in the number of study and number of databases, while also substantially bringing down the cost of each study. This will make DARWIN EU a ground-breaking venture of Real-World Evidence generation. This ambitious endeavour cannot result from simply scaling up the traditional approach used today. To implement DARWIN EU, we must remove the obstacle that currently prevent the exploitation of existing data at the required speed and quality. We need to setup procedure and tool for federated study execution to be compliant to governance rule and privacy regulations. This requires that we improve the interoperability of data, develop standardised analytics, and develop tool to host all artefact created in study to be re-used for future studies. For more information on each of these topic see the menu item on the left. Last Updated: 12 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Study Execution Study Execution DARWIN EU Studies are executed using a so-called federation approach a shown in the figure below. In this approach the Data Partners in the distributed data network keep full control of their own data. No patient level data is shared with the Coordination Centre (CC) only aggregated study results. The Study Execution process are divided into the following Phases: Exploration, Initiation, Implementation, Execution, Dissemination: In the Exploration Phase the EMA is interacting with the Coordination Centre to explore the feasibility of a study request with respect to the preferred design, available data, resources, and timelines. 1. Study Request Research question originate from the EU Regulatory Network a a need for information to support the authorisation and monitoring of medicinal product and subsequent decision-making. They may include, for example, query on the incidence or prevalence of disease in the European population, the drug utilisation pattern for a specific product, the collection of additional data on a potential safety signal, the evaluation of an association between a drug and a clinical outcome or the assessment of the effectiveness of a risk minimisation measure. It is envisaged that in the future, research question may also originate from other stakeholder such a the European Commission, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), Health Technology Assessment (HTA) body and payers. The requester, together with EMA, prepares the Feasibility Assessment Form containing: a short title for the request, the regulatory background motivating the query, any other important information for understanding the query, the product and/or event(s)/outcome(s) of interest, the objective, a proposal for the study design and any relevant design consideration such a the choice of data source and other methodological aspects. The choice of study design is supported by the providing, for a range of possible analysis with different level of complexity (Routine repeated, Off-the-shelf, Complex), the implication in term of database needed and timelines. 2. Feasibility Assessment The Coordination Centre then performs a feasibility assessment for EMA review. Its aim is to ass the feasibility of the study based on relevant factor for the concerned study, including, for example, the number of exposed patients, number of events, time period, minimum duration of exposure to be considered, time lag for occurrence of event, feasibility of implementing the study design in the available database or other criterion depending on the study. The feasibility assessment will in principle only use information already available to CC on the characteristic of database via pre-calculated Data Dashboards and other relevant information. If necessary, simple data analysis could be performed in relevant database available, for example simple count of the number of patient exposed to a medicinal product or who experienced a clinical event over a defined time period. Such data analysis may be performed in a limited number of database by the Coordination Centre and will not undergo the same quality assurance process a those performed for a full study. The result of the feasibility analysis are next included in the Feasibility Assessment Form with a recommendation regarding the conduct of the study. The decision to initiate the study is formally made by the EMA. In the Initiation Phase the contractual agreement are setup with the selected Data Partners, the Study Team is formed, and the Conflicts of Interest procedure is applied. Contractual Agreements Upon green light to conduct a study, the Coordination Centre is responsible for the contractual agreement and onboarding of Data Partners in the study. A standardised work order is initiated by the DARWIN EU CC which indicates the agreed timeline and the budget of the study. Each data partner will sign a standard work order agreement which specifies their activities, budget, and timelines. Team Formation The level of involvement of a study team will strongly depend on the Study Type, i.e., simple off the shelf study may be run near automatically with a fast review step by a small team. For more complex study a larger team may be proposed by Study Operations. This team consist of data scientists, epidemiologists, and clinical domain expert who are responsible for Evidence Generation and Evidence Synthesis. The team is completed with Data Stewards from the participating Data Partners who will work in a secured collaboration space. Documentation and assessment of Conflicts of Interest Potential investigator to be assigned to a DARWIN EU study shall be requested to declare any existing direct or indirect interest in a pharmaceutical company. These term are further defined in the . More detail on The DARWIN EU Conflict of Interest Procedure can be found in our section. EMA will review the submitted form and will approve the team composition. In the Implementation Phase all the study artefact are created such a the Study Outline, Study Protocol, Cohort Definitions, Study Package. Study Outline Once agreement is reached between EMA and the DARWIN EU CC to conduct a DARWIN EU study, the Study Outline Form is completed describing aspect such as: Study Team, Data Sources, Choice of study type and related study design including methodological aspects, governance board approval and timelines. The completed Study Outline Form is next submitted to the EMA for approval. Once the Study Outline Form is approved by the EMA, the protocol for the DARWIN EU study is generated. The Study Outline a approved and signed-off by EMA is archived at the DARWIN EU CC in a study specific project file. Study Protocol Development Once agreement is reached between EMA and the DARWIN EU CC on the Study Outline, the Study Protocol is generated following the . Upon completion of the Draft Study Protocol, this Study Protocol need to be approved by the EMA. Once the Study Protocol is approved and signed-off by EMA, the study protocol is archived at the DARWIN EU CC in a study specific project file. Next, the final study protocol is uploaded to the Kick-off meeting Following finalisation of the protocol and prior to study execution, a kick-off meeting is organised by the Study Project Manager/Principal Investigator with all study team member to explain the protocol, agree on roles, responsibility and timeline for study execution. Governance Board Approval Protocol approval at the study site is often required to comply with the local implementation of relevant law and directive in the various European states. Each data custodian is responsible for protocol approval from their local governance board prior to study execution a is specified in the Framework Contract with the Data Partner. Cohort Construction and Assessment Where needed, a phenotype for the target and outcome cohort that work across the included data source is generated. This is facilitated through the , the in addition to the . The latter provides an in-depth characterisation of the phenotype definitions, secular trend over time, standard a well a orphan source code (not included source code that may be of interest), and cohort participant/s characterisation. Study Package Creation The analysis pipeline for each study type a described within the will be used and only need to be instantiated with the cohort of interest and the right parameter setting to obtain the Study Package. For example, for a study to estimate the incidence and prevalence of a health outcome the Package is used and the parameter are set according to the protocol. Before study initiation, test run of the analytics are performed on a subset of the data source or on a simulated set of patient and quality control check are performed. Once all the test are passed, the final package is released a a private repository in the version- controlled . This package is distributed to the data partner for local execution agains their OMOP CDM. In the Execution Phase the Data Partners execute the Study Package against the OMOP CDM and review the aggregated results. This includes applying quality check on the study result and a data privacy check to assure that only aggregated data is shared compliant to their local governance procedures. Execution Iterations The data partner locally execute the analytics against the OMOP-CDM and review and approve the aggregated result before returning them to the Coordination Centre. Sometimes multiple execution iteration are performed, and additional fine tuning of the code base is needed. A service desk is available during the study execution for support. Quality Control The study result of all data source are checked after which they are made available to the team in the Digital Research Environment and the Dissemination Phase can start. All result are locked and timestamped for reproducibility and transparency. In the Dissemination Phase the evidence is synthesised in report and result dashboards, and potentially in publications. All study artefact are then retained Evidence Synthesis The result of all data source are combined to produce the table and figure needed for the report in the Digital Research Environment. The amount of effort for Evidence Synthesis will strongly depend on the study complexity, i.e., le effort for the off-the-shelf and routine repeated study and more effort for the complex studies. The pooling of database-specific result will be pre-specified per protocol, including rules/diagnostics precluding the inclusion of a database and the use of meta-analytic approach to combine data-specific estimates. The result are reviewed, and conclusion are formed in the context of the prior knowledge if relevant. Dashboard Instantiation In most study executed against the OMOP-CDM, a large amount of study result is generated from many data sources. Therefore, dashboard in the form of a web application will be made to simplify the exploration of the results. All the uploaded study result can be easily combined in a single folder from which the dashboard is instantiated. The web application will either be made publicly available or if necessary, will be made available behind a security layer. Reporting of Study Results The study team then writes the report and/or publication. All study report are written in accordance with the Guideline on good pharmacovigilance (GVP) module VIII, (EMA/813938/2011) and the guidance from ENCePP. The (final) study report(s) are uploaded in the . Study finding will preferably be considered for publication a open access. Any publication will be guided by the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals: Writing and Editing for Biomedical Publication of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (). Retention Before closure of the study all generated documents, used analytics, and study result are archived to enable reproducibility. Last Updated: 16 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Data Interoperability Data Interoperability Increasing productivity of reliable Real World Evidence generation requires the standardisation and automation of the analytical processes. This cannot be done without a standard representation of the data. Full interoperability of the data is needed with respect to structure (syntactic interoperability) and coding system (semantic interoperability) by using a Common Data Model (CDM). OMOP Common Data Model DARWIN EU is using the (OMOP CDM), which ismaintained by the (OHDSI) global community. The OHDSI community also ha an active led by the Erasmus MC. The OMOP CDM provides both syntactic and semantic interoperability. Syntacticly, the OMOP CDM is a relational database consisting of table with demographic and clinical event ('Standardised Clinical Data', information about the care setting ('Standardised Health System'), health economics ('Standardised health economics'), record derived from other clinical table ('Standardized derived elements') and 'Standardized metadata'). The semantic layer is provided by the 'Standardized vocabularies', which ha to be populated by the OMOP standard concept and their relationships. The standardized vocabulary are centrally maintained and distributed. The semantic interoperability is especially important in Europe with it myriad of terminology system and languages. Tools are available for data standardisation, data quality, and data analysis, commercially and in the public domain (see for example, ). The OMOP CDM is designed for federated querying and analytics, whereby application are run locally at the data partner site and only aggregated result are shared. This privacy-by-design approach is compliant with data protection requirements. The OMOP CDM is a proven model for large-scale observational health studies. It ha been used in including study that informed regulatory decision-making, and a large number of European database are already available in OMOP CDM format. For example, the (EHDEN) project is investing 17M private/public funding in standardising health data to the OMOP-CDM through the Innovative Medicines Initiative (). The adoption of the OMOP CDM is growing in Europe, with being formed. Quality Control Mechanisms As part of Data Partner (DP) onboarding, the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre (CC) ass the quality of the data. The DARWIN EU data quality package will be aligned with the of EMA. The benefit of an interoperable data model, is dat we can use standardised tooling to extract objective data quality metrics. For this purpose we are currently using two packages: is an R Package to support the onboarding process of a Data Partner (DP) into the DARWIN EU Data Network. It extract statistic from the DP's OMOP CDM instance and produce a Word document. The goal of this onboarding report is to provide insight into the completeness, transparency and quality of the performed Extraction Transform, and Load (ETL) process and the readiness of the data partner to be onboarded in the DARWIN EU data network and participate in DARWIN EU studies. The onboarding report consists of three sections. The Clinical Data section report on data table counts, data density, follow-up period length and date ranges. The Vocabulary Mapping section is especially important for data quality, a it show the concept mapping coverage per domain and the top mapped/unmapped codes. Finally, the Technical Infrastructure section give insight into the readiness of the DP to execute studies, with overview of the query timings, installed package and system information. CdmOnboarding is run on-site by the DP, and extract data directly from the OMOP CDM and from pre-calculated table from (OHDSI R package for OMOP CDM characterisation). The resulting Word document is required a an annex to the main Onboarding Document, to be delivered upon first onboarding. However, CdmOnboarding is required to be run on every CDM refresh, and result shared with the CC for inspection. The is an R package maintained by the OHDSI community. It performs a set of over 3000 standardised check on a populated OMOP CDM instance. The goal is to evaluate observational data quality in a systematic and transparent way. The quality check are organized according to the which us a system of category and context that represent strategy for assessing data quality. DQD contains 24 check defined within this framework that can be systematically executed against all relevant table and field in the OMOP CDM. Examples of check executed by DQD are: doe the table/field exist, is populated and doe it have the right data type (cdmField, cdmDataType, isRequired) doe the field follow the standard semantic interoperability (isStandardValidConcept) gender-specific diagnosis/procedure associated with correct person gender (gender) measurement value within extreme range (valueLow, valueHigh) Clair Blacketer, Frank J Defalco, Patrick B Ryan, Peter R Rijnbeek, Increasing trust in real-world evidence through evaluation of observational data quality, Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, Volume 28, Issue 10, October 2021, Pages 22512257, External link Last Updated: 26 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Standardised Analytics Standardised Analytics The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre (CC) ha been set up to maximise the value and efficiency of real-world evidence for regulator and other stakeholder in Europe. With this in mind, it is recognised that Standardised Analytics are needed to speed up evidence generation whilst preserving the quality, reproducibility, and transparency of the proposed research. Standardised Analytics are enabled through the use of the OMOP Common Data Model (OMOP CDM). This ha several advantages: There is no risk for different implementation of the study design a would be the case when only a common protocol is shared that is translated to code by a programmer at each site. Differences in study outcome are therefore related to the data instead of the study implementation. Standardised Analytics can be made for each Study Type that can be re-used for specific study by defining study parameters. For example, a Drug Utilisation Analytical tool can be made with parameter for the Population and Drugs of Interest. Standardised Analytics will produce standardised which help EMA and it committee to streamline their assessment of the results. Standardised Analytics can be tested and validated following agreed Quality Assurance Processes and test data set in the OMOP CDM format. The CC is developing a Catalogue of Standard Data Analyses to accommodate all the requested study designs. The study that DARWIN EU will deliver are grouped by their anticipated level of complexity: Off-the-shelf, Complex, Very Complex. The Off-The-Shelf and Complex Studies can be repeated periodically with a pre-specified regularity (e.g. yearly), called Routine Repeated Analyses. The development of the Common Analytics is driven by the initial list of study in the Establishment Phase of DARWIN EU. Below you can find the current version of the catalogue. There will be further discussion with stakeholder in 2023 and the catalogue will be maintained regularly. Catalogue of Standard Data Analyses The Catalogue of Standard Data Analyses list the various analysis currently supported by the CC. Off-the-shelf study These are mainly characterisation question that can be executed with a generic protocol. This includes disease epidemiology, for example the estimation of the prevalence, incidence of health outcome in defined time period and population groups, or drug utilization study at the population or patient level. Study Type/s Patient-level characterisation are classified a off the shelf Study Design Cohort analysis. Participant/s Patient-level characterisation study will include one or more cohort/s of people newly diagnosed with 1 or more pre-specified condition/s and with some amount of data visibility before diagnosis, and with no record of the same condition/s in the previous year (or in all previous history). Additional eligibility criterion could apply a follows, to be incorporated a sensitivity analyses: Additional restriction/s could apply based on socio-demographics, e.g., people aged 18 or older at the time of diagnosis Additionally, people with a competing (differential) diagnosis could also be excluded (e.g., people with rheumatoid arthritis with a history of psoriatic arthritis could be excluded to minimise misclassification) Follow-up Participants will be followed up from their date of new diagnosis (index date) until the earliest of the following: loss to follow-up, end of data availability, a pre-specified time period (e.g. 1 year after index date) or death. Analyses Details will be discussed during programming of pipelines, but it is likely that patient-level characterisation will include: Automated large-scale characterisation, including all recorded baseline characteristic available in the data before or on index date, based on code/s, and classified into condition (medical history), medicine/s use, and procedure/s Pre-specified patient-level characteristic on and/or before index date, based on pre-existing code list or definition (e.g., history of type 2 diabetes, or Charlson comorbidity index) Pre-specified patient-level characteristic on and/or before index date, based on concept and descendant where no previously validated algorithm are available Incidence rate/s of pre-specified outcome/s within a pre-specified time period (e.g. 1 year) Prognosis / progression to a pre-specified outcome within a pre-specified time, e.g., cumulative incidence of certain event or mortality within 1- or 5-years after diagnosis Standard care description, including n (%) receiving each of a pre-specified list of medicine/s, device/s or procedure/s, and combination within a pre-specified time window after diagnosis Study Type/s Patient-level DUS analysis are classified a off the shelf studies. Patient-level DUS will offer the possibility to include population-level DUS analysis a part of the same analysis. Study Design New drug/s user cohort Participants Patient-level DUS analysis will include one or more cohort/s of incident drug user with at least 1 year of data visibility, and no use of that same drug/drug class in that previous year. Additional eligibility criterion could apply a follows: Source population could be restricted to a specific subpopulation with certain socio-demographic or clinical feature/s, e.g., people with a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis who then start to take a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) Additional restriction/s could apply a per product label, indication, or study aim/s, e.g., people aged 18 or older at the time of therapy initiation Follow-up Participants will be followed up from the date of therapy initiation (index date) until the earliest of loss to follow-up, end of data availability, or death. Patients might be censored at the time they discontinue treatment or switch to an alternative therapy. Outcome/s The following outcome/s will be obtained, potentially stratified by pre-specified criterion (age bands, sex, calendar year or month), and other pre-specified criteria: New drug user cohort/s patient-level characteristic on or before index date Indication (where available) Initial dose/strength (as prescribed/dispensed at therapy initiation, where available) Cumulative use within a pre-specified time period (e.g. 1 year) based on number of prescription and dose/strength Treatment duration Count of repeated prescription during a pre-specified time period (e.g. 1 year) Analyses Patient-level DUS analytics will include: Large-scale characterisation of patient-level feature based on code/concept and descendants, including socio-demographics, comorbidity, and previous medicine/s use any time in history, and in the year, and/or in the month previous to index date Frequency and % of indication/s, based on pre-specified list of diagnosis recorded before therapy initiation (where available) Reporting of minimum, p25, median, p75, and maximum initially prescribed or dispensed dose/strength (where available) Reporting of minimum, p25, median, p75, and maximum cumulative use within a pre-specified time period (e.g. 1 year) Reporting of minimum, p25, median, p75, and maximum treatment duration Reporting of minimum, p25, median, p75, and maximum number of repeated prescription of the index drug during a pre-specified time period (e.g. 1 year) Study Type Population-level DUS analysis are classified a off the shelf studies. Study Design Population-level cohort. Participants Population-level analysis will include the entire source population with at least some time (typically 1 year) of data visibility available before start of study period. Additional eligibility criterion will apply a follows: Analyses of incidence of drug use will exclude prevalent user of the same drug/drug class on index date and/or in the previous (washout) year The study population could be restricted to a specific subpopulation with certain socio-demographic e.g., age 18 or older, or with a history of a pre-specified clinical feature/s, e.g., people with a prior diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis In some cases, a minimum follow-up will be requested e.g., for treatment pattern analysis Outcome/s The following outcome/s will be obtained, potentially stratified by pre-specified criterion (age bands, sex, calendar year or month): Population-based incidence rate of use of a drug/drug class over calendar time. Periods could be calendar days, weeks, months, quarter or years. Population-based prevalence of use of a drug/drug class on a given time point (point prevalence) or within a given time period (period prevalence). Periods could be calendar days, weeks, months, quarter or years. Follow-up Follow-up will start on a pre-specified calendar time point pre-defined a index date , e.g., 1st January or 1st of each month, and continue for a pre-specified time period, typically week, month, quarter or year. Analyses Population-level DUS analysis use the same analytical pipeline a Population-level descriptive epidemiology study (see separate subsection). Incidence rate will have number of new user (with a pre-specified washout) in the numerator, and total population a person-years (except prevalent users) in the denominator. Prevalence will be calculated a number of user (prevalent or new) over whole source population at a specific time point (i.e., point prevalence) or over a specific time window (i.e., period prevalence). Both may be stratified by socio-demographics (e.g., age band or sex) and/or calendar period. Additional criterion (e.g. disease severity/duration) may need to be considered and integrated a pre-specified in future studies. Study Type/s Population-level descriptive epidemiology are classified a off the shelf studies. Study Design Population-level cohort Participant/s Population-level analysis will include the entire source population with at least some time (typically 1 year) of data visibility available before index date. Additional eligibility criterion will apply a follows: Analyses of disease incidence will exclude patient with a previous/prevalent history of the same disease on index date and/or in the previous (washout) year and/or in all previous history The source population could be restricted to a specific subpopulation with certain socio-demographic or clinical feature/s, e.g., people aged 50+ on index date Outcome/s The following outcome/s will be obtained, potentially stratified by pre-specified criterion (age bands, sex, calendar year or month), and other pre-specified criteria: Population-based incidence of a disease/condition (or group of diseases/conditions) on a given time point or over time (stratified by calendar period) Population-based prevalence of disease (or group of diseases/conditions) on a given time point (e.g., a pre-specified date), and/or over time (e.g., stratified by month or year) Follow-up Follow-up will start on a pre-specified calendar time point pre-defined a index date , e.g., 1st January or 1st of a given month, and continue for a pre-specified time period, typically a week, a month or a year Analyses Incidence rate will have number of newly diagnosed people in the numerator, and total population (satisfying the study eligibility criteria) in the denominator. Prevalence will be calculated a number of people with the diagnosis (prevalent or new) over whole source population on a specific date (point prevalence) or over a window of time (period prevalence). Both can be stratified by socio-demographics (e.g., age band or sex) and/or calendar period. Other criterion (e.g. disease severity/duration) may need to be considered and integrated in future studies. Complex These are study requiring development or customisation of specific study designs, protocols, analytics, phenotypes. This includes study on the safety and effectiveness of medicine and vaccines. Motivation Although new user cohort are preferred, prevalent user design can be desirable in some instances, particularly when a recently marketed medicine is to be compared to an existing and heavily used active comparator, a many of the new user of the recently launched will be previous user of the existing active comparator medicine. This lead to a situation where new user of a new medicine with no use of the active comparator are scarce, and potentially non representative of the desired target population of all user of the new drug. Prevalent user cohort study have been used in recent year to study the potential effect of medicine like ACE inhibitor or alpha-1-blockers against SARS-CoV-2 infection and/or COVID-19 severity [; ]. Study Type/s Prevalent user active comparator cohort study are classified a complex analyses. Study Design Prevalent user cohorts. Participant/s At least two cohorts, including a cohort of prevalent user of at least one drug/medicinal product under investigation (target cohort) and a cohort of prevalent user of at least one drug/medicinal product a an active comparator (comparator cohort). Typically, prevalent user cohort will be defined by the previous use of a target/comparator medicine during a specific time period or for a pre-specified duration. Follow-up Participants in each cohort will be followed from a specific index date different from the date of treatment initiation. Based on previous examples, this will typically be a calendar date, e.g. 1st of March 2022. Two possibility of analysis will be offered: In a fixed follow-up analysis, follow-up will continue until death, loss of follow-up or a pre-specified time period (e.g., 3 years) regardless of treatment duration In an on treatment analysis, follow-up will continue until treatment cessation, death, or loss of follow-up Outcome/s One or more study outcome will be pre-specified, based on previous DARWIN EU algorithm or newly developed and validated ones. In addition, a long list of negative control outcome will be assessed, which are not known to have a causal association with the drug/s or medicinal product/s under study. Analyses Details will be discussed during programming of pipelines, but new user cohort analysis will include: Large-scale characterisation of participant in the target and comparator cohorts, including all feature available in the data before or on index date. Large-scale propensity score (LSPS) will be estimated a the probability of exposure (target cohort) conditional on all available covariates available in the data with a prevalence >1%. LSPS will be estimated using Lasso regression. Different to new user cohorts, LSPS will be estimated using the information available on the index date, which in the case of prevalent user is not the date of therapy initiation but a different previously specified date. Incidence rate/s of each of the outcome of interest in the target and comparator cohort after LSPS matching, stratification, or inverse probability weighting Diagnostic/s: Covariate balance: a plot will be produced depicting the standardized mean difference/s between target and comparator cohort for all available covariates before (x axis) and after propensity score matching/stratification/weighting (y axis) [see Figure 4 for an illustrative example] Equipoise: plot of the distribution of the propensity score stratified by target v comparator cohort [see Figure 4 for an illustrative example] Analyses will not be conducted where there is insufficient data, based on a pre-specified minimum detectable rate ratio (e.g., MDRR>5) Optional: In addition to the two above, residual confounding/systematic error will be available for estimation, a based on the number of negative control outcome/s significantly associated with the exposure of interest Rate Ratios or Hazard Ratio/s and 95% confidence interval will be estimated using Poisson or Cox model respectively, comparing the target v comparator (reference) cohort after LSPS matching, stratification, or inverse probability weighting Optionally, calibrated RR or HR will be estimated after empirical calibration using negative control outcome Study Type/s New user active comparator cohort study are classified a complex analyses. Study Design New user cohorts. Participant/s At least two cohorts, including a cohort of new user of at least one drug/medicinal product under investigation (target cohort) and a cohort of new user of at least one drug/medicinal product a an active comparator (comparator cohort). Typically, new user cohort exclude previous user of either cohort in the previous year a well a people with <1 year of data visibility before inclusion. Follow-up Participants in each cohort will be followed from therapy initiation date (index date). Two possibility of analysis will be offered: In a fixed follow-up analysis, follow-up will continue until death, loss to follow-up or a pre-specified time period (e.g., 3 years) regardless of treatment duration In an on treatment analysis, follow-up will continue until treatment cessation, death, or loss of follow-up Outcome/s One or more study outcome will be pre-specified, based on previous DARWIN EU algorithm or newly developed and validated ones. In addition, a long list of negative control outcome will be assessed, which are not known to have a causal association with the drug/s or medicinal product/s under study. Analyses Details will be discussed during programming of pipelines, but new user cohort analysis will include: Large-scale characterisation of participant in the target and comparator cohorts, including all feature available in the data before or on index date Large-scale propensity score (LSPS) will be estimated a the probability of exposure (target cohort) conditional on all available covariates available in the data with a prevalence >1%. LSPS will be estimated using Lasso regression Incidence rate/s of each of the outcome of interest in the target and comparator cohort after LSPS matching, stratification, or inverse probability weighting Diagnostic/s: Covariate balance Equipoise: plot of the distribution of the propensity score stratified by target v comparator cohort Analyses will not be conducted where there is insufficient data, based on a pre-specified minimum detectable rate ratio (e.g., MDRR>5) Optional: In addition to the two above, residual confounding/systematic error will be available for estimation, a based on the number of negative control outcome significantly associated with the exposure of interest Rate Ratios or Hazard Ratio/s and 95% confidence interval will be estimated using Poisson or Cox model respectively, comparing the target v comparator (reference) cohort after LSPS matching, stratification, or inverse probability weighting Optionally, calibrated RR or HR will be estimated after empirical calibration using negative control outcome Study Type/s Self-controlled case risk interval study are classified a complex analyses. Study Design Self-controlled case risk interval (SCRI). Participant/s Just like SCCS, SCRI study include one or more cohort/s of people who suffer a specified safety event/group of event/s at least once in their record/s. Additional eligibility criterion could apply based on socio-demographics or clinical characteristics. Follow-up The SCRI design us a pre-specified control interval relative to the exposure (typically vaccination) date a the control time. These control interval can be before or after exposure, but must be defined a priori. We will therefore pre-define study-specific follow-up pre- and/or post-exposure control interval periods, and participant will be followed/observed for the pre-specified control interval, and immediately after/during exposure to a medicinal product. Similar to SCCS, the specified control interval (either pre- and/or post-exposure) period will be considered a baseline or unexposed, whilst treatment episode/s are exposed. Outcome/s One or more study outcome will be pre-specified, based on previous DARWIN EU algorithm or newly developed and validated ones. Ideally, outcome should be acute in presentation and with a clear and accurate diagnosis date. In addition, a long list of negative control outcome will be assessed, which are not known to have a causal association with the drug/s or medicinal product/s under study. Analyses Details will be discussed during programming of pipelines, but SCRI will include: Large-scale characterisation of SCRI participant at the time of diagnosis, including all recorded feature available in the data before or on index date, based on SNOMED code/s Pre-specified patient-level characteristic on and/or before diagnosis, based on pre-existing cohort or definition (e.g., history of type 2 diabetes, or Charlson comorbidity index). Pre-specified patient-level characteristic on and/or before diagnosis, based on concept and descendant where no previously validated algorithm are available Incidence rate/s during pre-specified control interval and exposed time Diagnostic/s: Event-exposure independence: a histogram of the time between the event date and the end of observation for individual censored and uncensored will be plotted to ass for potentially event-dependent observation time Analyses will not be conducted where there is insufficient data, based on a pre-specified minimum detectable rate ratio (e.g., MDRR>5) Optional: In addition to the two above, residual confounding/systematic error will be available for estimation, a based on the number of negative control outcome significantly associated with the exposure of interest Incidence rate ratio and 95% confidence interval will be estimated using conditional Poisson regression models, comparing the exposed v the control interval period. Adjusted incidence rate ratio and 95% confidence interval will be calculated after adjustment for age and seasonality Optionally, calibrated incidence rate ratio will be estimated after empirical calibration of the adjusted incidence rate ratio based on the observed systematic error Study Type/s Self-controlled case series are classified a complex (C3) analyses. Study Design Self-controlled case series (SCCS). Participant/s SCCS will include one or more cohort/s of people who suffer a specified safety event/group of event at least once in their record/s, hence their denomination a case series. Additional eligibility criterion could apply based on socio-demographics or clinical characteristics. Follow-up We will pre-define follow-up period according to exposure history. Typically, participant in an SCCS will be followed for some time before (pre-exposure), during (exposed) and post-exposure to a medicinal product. Sometimes, a washout is imposed before the beginning of the exposure period. Pre- and post-exposure period will be considered a baseline or unexposed, whilst treatment episode/s are exposed. The washout period will be disregarded and not accounted for in the analyses. See Figure 3 for an illustration. In some analyses, only the first event will be considered for each participant to minimise biases, with follow-up censored after that first event. Outcome/s One or more study outcome will be pre-specified, based on previous DARWIN EU algorithm or newly developed and validated ones. Ideally, outcome should be acute in presentation and with a clear and accurate diagnosis date. In addition, a long list of negative control outcome will be assessed, which are known to have no causal association with the drug/s or medicinal product/s under study. Analyses Details will be discussed during programming of pipelines, but SCCS will include: Large-scale characterisation of SCCS participant at the time of diagnosis (index date), including all recorded feature available in the data before or at that date, based on SNOMED code/s Pre-specified patient-level characteristic on before or at index date, based on pre-existing cohort or definition (e.g., history of type 2 diabetes, or Charlson comorbidity index). Pre-specified patient-level characteristic on before or at index date, based on concept and descendant where no previously validated algorithm are available Incidence rate during exposed and unexposed time Diagnostic/s: Event-exposure independence: a histogram of the time between the event date and the end of observation for individual censored and uncensored will be plotted to ass potential for event-dependent observation time Analyses will not be conducted where there is insufficient data, based on a pre-specified minimum detectable rate ratio (e.g., MDRR>5) Optional: In addition to the two above, residual confounding/systematic error will be available for estimation, a based on the distribution of result from the negative control outcome analysis Incidence rate ratio and 95% confidence interval will be estimated using conditional Poisson regression models, comparing the exposed v the baseline period. Adjusted incidence rate ratio and 95% confidence interval will be calculated after adjustment for age and seasonality Optionally, calibrated incidence rate ratio will be estimated after empirical calibration of the adjusted incidence rate ratio based on the observed systematic error Study Type These are considered complex epidemiological study a they require bespoke modelling of intervention like public health restriction after the calculation of population- and/or patient-level disease epidemiology estimates. These analysis will take the form of interrupted time series to analyse the impact of an intervention (e.g., a public health restriction or change/s in law) on the occurrence of an outcome at the population-level (e.g., incidence of COVID-19 before v after imposition of public health restrictions) and/or at the patient level (e.g., characteristic of people newly diagnosed before v after change/s in law). Study Design Population-level cohort/s AND Patient-level characterisation. Participant/s Population-level analysis will include the entire source population with at least 1 year of data visibility available before start of study period. Additional eligibility criterion could apply a in population-level disease epidemiology (see above). Stratification will be used in the case of Difference-in-difference study to obtain a control (unimpacted) counterfactual for comparison. Patient-level analysis will be restricted to newly diagnosed subjects, using a 1-year washout, and with potential additional eligibility (see above). Exposure/s At least one public health measure, regulatory action (e.g., banning or change in use of a medicinal product) or other intervention will have been imposed at a known date in time. In the case of Difference-in-difference analyses, these should only affect a known subpopulation, with another subpopulation not affected by the intervention acting a the unimpacted counterfactual. The study period will be pre-specified, and divided into pre-exposure (i.e., unimpacted time) and post-exposure (i.e., impacted) calendar time. In Difference-in-difference studies, the observed pre- v post-exposure change in the Exposed will be compared to those in the Unexposed subpopulation. A lag period between the intervention and the start of the post-exposure study period could be considered to allow for the action to have an impact on the study outcome/s. Outcome/s The following will be estimated for a pre-specified study period, including at least 1 year before and after the intervention/s of interest: Population-based incidence rate of a condition/group of condition/s over time Population-based prevalence of a condition/group of condition over time For Difference-in-differences: population-based incidence and prevalence of a condition/group of condition/s over time, and in the exposed v unexposed population separately At the patient level, two cohort of newly diagnosed people will be studied, namely those diagnosed in the period before (unimpacted) v after the intervention (impacted). The following outcome/s will be obtained and compared for both cohorts: Patient-level characteristic amongst the newly diagnosed before v after intervention (Optional) Patient-level characteristic amongst the prevalent case on a given date/s before v after intervention Prognosis / progression to a pre-specified outcome within a pre-specified time for those diagnosed before v after the exposure of interest Standard care description, including n (%) receiving each of a pre-specified list of medicine/s, common combination among those diagnosed before v after the exposure of interest (Optional) Standard care description, including n (%) receiving each of a pre-specified list of medicine/s, common combination among prevalent case on specified date before v after the exposure of interest Follow-up For population-level analyses, follow-up will start on a pre-specified calendar time point, at least 1 year before the proposed intervention, and will continue for at least 1 year after it. For patient-level analyses, follow-up will go from the date of diagnosis (newly diagnosed cases) or prespecified date (prevalent cases) until the earliest of loss to follow-up, end of data availability, or death. Analyses Incidence and prevalence rate/s of disease over time will be estimated a detailed in section 3.1. Once these are available, segmented regression method will be used to estimate the impact of the proposed intervention/s on pre- v post-intervention change/s in trend of population-level prevalence and/or incidence. Coefficients for the segmented regression will be reported to quantify the impact of the intervention/s on the incidence and prevalence of use, together with Durbin-Watson residual a a diagnostic. In case of autocorrelation, ARIMA/X model will be fitted instead of segmented regression if data permits. For difference-in-difference studies, parallel trend before the intervention will be identified a a requisite for this type of study. If confirmed, Difference-in-difference model will be used to subtract the difference of the unexposed group to the exposed one whilst controlling for time varying factors, thus estimating the causal effect of the intervention. For patient-level analyses, standardised mean difference of each of the covariates for the comparison between new case diagnosed or prevalent case in the pre- v post-intervention period will be obtained a a measure of the impact of the exposure on the profile of new cases. Study Type Trend analysis and RMM effectiveness are considered complex DUS a they require bespoke modelling of intervention like risk minimization measure (RMM) after the completion of population- and/or patient-level DUS. These will typically take the form of interrupted time series to analyse the impact of a regulatory action on the use of a medicine at the population-level (e.g., incidence of use before v after RMM) and/or at the patient level (e.g., characteristic of new drug user before v after RMM). Study Design Population-level cohort and New drug user cohort Participant/s Population-level analysis will include the entire source population with at least some time (typically 1 year) of data visibility available before start of study period. Additional eligibility criterion could apply a in population-level DUS (see above). Patient-level analysis will be restricted to new or prevalent user of a specified list of medicine/s or medicinal product/s during a specified time point/period, using a washout, and with potential additional eligibility criterion considered (see above). Exposure/s At least one RMM will have been imposed at a known date in time. This RMM (or series of RMMs) will be the main study exposure/intervention for analysis. The study period will therefore be pre-specified, and divided into before (i.e., unimpacted time) and after (i.e., impacted) calendar time. A lag period between the publication or communication of the RMM and the start of the post-exposure study period could be considered to allow for the RMM to have an impact on the study outcome/s. Outcome/s The following will be estimated for a pre-specified study period, including at least 1 year before and after the RMM exposure/s of interest: Population-based incidence rate of use of a drug/drug class over time Population-based prevalence of use of a drug/drug class over time At the patient level, two cohort of new or prevalent drug user/s will be studied, namely those who initiated or were user of the treatment of interest in the period before (unimpacted) v after the RMM (impacted). The following outcome/s will be obtained and compared for both cohorts: New drug user cohort/s patient-level characteristic on or before index date (Optionally) prevalent drug user cohort/s patient-level characteristic on or before index date Follow-up For population-level analyses, follow-up will start on a pre-specified calendar time point, at least 1 year before the imposed RMM, and will continue for at least 1 year after it. For patient-level analyses, follow-up will go from the date of therapy initiation (for new users) or a pre-specified date (for prevalent users) until the earliest of loss to follow-up, end of data availability, or death. Patients might be censored at the time they discontinue treatment or switch to an alternative therapy, or at the date of RMM. Analyses Incidence and prevalence rate/s of drug/s use over time will be estimated a detailed in section 2.1. Once these are available, segmented regression method will be used to estimate the impact of the imposed RMM/s on population-based pre- v post-intervention trend of drug/s use. Coefficients for the segmented regression indicating the difference in trend between the period and immediately after the intervention (step change) will be reported to quantify a a formal test of the impact of the RMM/s on the incidence and prevalence of use, together with Durbin-Watson residual a a diagnostic. In case of autocorrelation, ARIMA/X model will be fitted instead of segmented regression, if data permits. For patient-level analyses, standardised mean difference of each of the covariates for the comparison between new/prevalent drug user in the pre-RMM v post-RMM period will be obtained a a measure of the impact of the RMM on the profile of new drug users. Additionally, measure of patient-level DUS will be provided, stratified by time of therapy initiation pre or post RMM. Very Complex Studies Studies which cannot rely only on electronic health care databases, or which would require complex and/or novel methodological work. No very complex study design have been defined at this moment Quality Assurance of Software Development Software Quality Assurance, also called Software Testing Life Cycle process, aim assure that the software doe what is supposed to do according to the Software Requirements Specification (SRS). The code quality assurance process within DARWIN EU will follow the agile development method a shown in Figure 1. Figure 1. Agile software development method This method is continuously applied during the software lifecycle to monitor and improve the quality. The process is monitored by Quality Assessment Lead that interacts closely with the Product Owner. It contains the following steps: Plan: In the Plan Phase it is agreed what code will require testing and what part of this will be prioritized for the next sprint. Design: In the design phase the Software Specification Requirements (SRS) and Test Plan are created or updated (in following sprints). The SRS provides the benchmark for test planning since it specifies all the function and non-functional requirements, in which situation it is expected to be applied in, and by whom. The Test Plan is a living document that get updated with development sprints. Develop: In the develop step the quality measure are implemented in the code base or get updated according to the Test Plan. This includes the creation of the unit test etc. Test: This is the quality control phase of the process where the software is tested according to the plan to ensure that it provides the correct results, it ha cross platform compatibility, it is stable, and it is efficient. The outcome of these test are recorded and are taken into account for the next sprint. Issues identified are flagged a bug and are either immediately rectified in the case of significant error (e.g. incorrect application of functionality providing false answers), or they are (deemed enhancements) to be fixed in the next development cycle of the package, e.g., the software requires too much memory. Deploy: In this phase a major or minor software release can be created or the code is kept in development status for further improvement. The Quality of the software development focus on 2 main themes: 1. doe the software produce the correct results. This is tested using small scale example (units tests) where the correct answer is known. 2. Does the software run on the required platform without producing errors. This is examined by checking, e.g., incorrect parameters, platform difference (both database management and operating systems). Last Updated: 26 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Research Memory Research Memory The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre (CC) is developing library that store re-usable study artefact such a concept set or phenotype definitions. We need to make these artefact Findable Accessible Interoperable and Re-usable (FAIR). At the moment the CC is working on a library of OMOP-based phenotype that can be reused (with or without modifications) to conduct study in the DARWIN EU network: The DARWIN EU Cohort Knowledge base (DECK) Solid and well defined algorithm are necessary to identify people with a set of characteristic (e.g. coded diagnosis or recorded prescription/s or dispensation/s of a specific medicine) and logic (e.g. first diagnosis of a specific condition, or initiation of a specific therapy) that make them part of a cohort. The use of the OMOP CDM enables the generation, review, and approval of transportable cohort definition across a network of previously mapped data sources. The DARWIN EU Cohort Knowledge base (DECK for short) will compile transportable algorithm that can be used to identify cohort necessary for the conducting of EMA-commissioned studies, including user of specific medicinal product for drug utilisation studies, people with specific condition for the study of descriptive epidemiology, or people newly diagnosed with a specific health outcome for the study of drug safety. DECK will leverage existing knowledge compiled by the OHDSI community, previous EHDEN studies, and other previous studies, including EMA-commissioned tenders. The existing preliminary version of DECK collates a large number of clinical definition that have been previously produced and using during previous studies. Where possible and/or necessary, DARWIN EU study will leverage validated algorithm from DECK. The cumulative knowledge generated using the DECK will not only accelerate the study conducted during Years 3-5, but also maximise the reproducibility of our research by re-using the exact same or documented variation of algorithm for the same event over time. Last Updated: 19 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Studies Studies The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre implement all necessary service to generate reliable evidence from the real world data for the EU Regulatory network. Initially DARWIN EU will provide service to EMA and the National Competent Authorities (NCAs) of the Member States. As the network expands, DARWIN EU may perform study requested by EMA on behalf of third party such a other EU level health agency (e.g. European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), health technology assessment body or payers. For question raised by a partner from the EU Regulatory Network and requiring additional evidence to support regulatory decision-making, EMA will frame a research question and evaluate, in consultation with the Coordination Centre, the relevance and feasibility of interrogating the network. For each study, the Coordination Centre will develop the study protocol, identify appropriate data source for this specific question, obtain EMA approval and perform the conduct of the study with data partners. Following their local governance procedure the data partner need to obtain the mandatory institutional, IRB, and/or ethic approval. The data partner will receive and run the code on their own database and provide aggregated result to the Coordination Centre. The Coordination Centre will check the quality of the study data received from each data partner and perform additional data analysis step and interpretation. The Coordination Centre will compile the results, will be responsible to draft the study report and to submit the report to EMA for approval. The study that DARWIN EU will deliver are grouped by their anticipated level of complexity and frequency: Category Description Off-The-Shelf Studies These are mainly characterisation question that can be executed with a generic protocol. This includes study on disease epidemiology, for example the estimation of the prevalence or incidence of health outcome in defined time period and population groups, or drug utilization study at the population or patient level. Complex Studies These are study requiring development or customisation of specific study designs, protocols, analytics and phenotypes. This includes study on the safety and effectiveness of medicine and vaccines. Routine Repeated Analyses Routine analysis based on Off-The-Shelf or Complex Studies (see above), which are repeated with a pre-specified regularity (e.g. yearly) Very Complex Studies Studies which cannot rely only on electronic health care databases, or which require complex and/or novel methodological work All study executed by the DARWIN EU Coordination Center are registered in the . For the most up-to-date list of studies, search for the term DARWIN EU in the 'title of study' field. The list below will be updated on a monthly basis. Status Type EU PAS Register number Official Title Last Updated Finalised off-the-shelf EUPAS50789 21/03/2024 Finalised off-the-shelf EUPAS103381 21/03/2024 Finalised complex EUPAS103936 21/03/2024 Finalised off-the-shelf EUPAS50800 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS105033 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS105641 21/03/2024 Ongoing complex EUPAS106679 06/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS106052 06/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS105644 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS106798 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS106436 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS106685 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS107708 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS107650 21/03/2024 Ongoing Complex EUPAS107615 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS107454 21/03/2024 Ongoing off-the-shelf EUPAS107932 21/03/2024 Last Updated: 24 March 2024 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data FAQs General General information about DARWIN EU can be found under the About menu. Below are some FAQs we receive. The EMA will be responsible for providing leadership and direction, setting standard for DARWIN EU, contracting, instructing and overseeing the Coordination Centre and monitoring it performance. The overall operation of DARWIN EU is overseen by the Management Pillar and with guidance from it Advisory Boards. These board are composed of the Scientific Advisory Board, the Ethical Advisory Board, and the Data Source Prioritisation Committee. The initiative also receives oversight from the DARWIN EU Advisory Board at EMA, which you can read more about . At present, the DARWIN EU CC provides a service to EMA and the National Competent Authorities (NCAs) of the Member States, and therefore receives study request from EMA on behalf of those organisations. As the network expands, DARWIN EU may perform study requested by EMA on behalf of third party such a other EU level health agency (e.g. European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), health technology assessment body or payers. You can read more about it DARWIN EU work to deliver study a they are described in it Catalogue of Standard Data Analyses. These are categorised a Off-the-shelf, Complex, Very Complex and Routine Repeated. You can read more about it Studies are published on the European Union Electronic Register of Post-Authorisation Studies (EU PAS Register), which you can access For the most up-to-date list of study that DARWIN EU ha produced, search for the term DARWIN EU in the 'Title of study' field. Otherwise, you can check the updated list of study on this website The following organisation contribute to the establishment and operational phase of the Coordination Centre: Fore more information see . At present, there is no necessity to add any additional subcontractor or organisation to help deliver the requested services. Erasmus University Medical Centre is the current contractor, with it subcontractor having already been added during the tendering process. You can get in touch with the Coordination Centre through email: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.or the . Joining the Network If you are interested in joining the network, you can read more about the process . Below are some FAQs on the process. No. To be considered a a candidate DP, the first step is to submit an Expression of Interest. Yes, unless duly justified, in which case an appropriate justification should be included. The information contained in the EoI will primarily be used for the purpose of evaluating candidacy to formally become a DARWIN EU Data Partner. You can access the associated Data Protection Notice . Additionally, by providing consent in response to a specific question in the EoI form, you a the potential DP agree that your EoI information will be used to populate the EU Metadata Catalogue, which is an EMA initiative to help improve data discoverability and transparency. The Catalogue is intended for public use, and you can read it associated Data Protection Notice No, this is a continuously open call, but please bear in mind the cut-off date (30th April, 31st October) for review and selection. No. The CC may contact you to clarify certain aspect of your datasets or EoI, or to invite you to initiate the formal onboarding process. Until the latter is successfully completed and an agreement signed, you are not a DARWIN EU DP. The onboarding process consists of several quality and technical check to ensure readiness for DARWIN EU studies, plus explanation of the term and condition for participation and agreement on the legal provision that will apply to the relationship between you and the CC. Its duration can vary between 1 and 2 months, ordinarily. No. The onboarding process ha to be successfully completed and an agreement with the CC ha to be signed. If you have a question that is not listed above, you can get in touch with the Coordination Centre by email. Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Contact The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre is represented by the Department of Medical Informatics at the Erasmus MC Route Description: Fields marked with * are required Type of Question* Please select one General Question Open Call for Expression of Interest Data Protection Name* Email* Subject* Message* Consent* consent[] I hereby give consent to store and process the information i provided in the form. Data Protection Notice* data_protection_notice[] I hereby accept the Enter captcha security code Send Email Send Email Reset PUBLIC TRANSPORT Metro A,B,C Alight at Dijkzigt station and follow the sign Erasmus MC. Bus 44 Alight at Dijkzigt station and follow the sign Erasmus MC. Tram 8 Alight at Kievietslaan station. Enter through Westzeedijk parking garage. Car In the direct vicinity of Erasmus MC follow the sign to these parking garages. Parking Westzeedijk Westzeedijk 361 3015 AA Rotterdam Parking Wytemaweg Wytemaweg 12 3015 CN Rotterdam Route Description The Coordination Center is hosted at the Department of Medical Informatics on the 26th floor of the Na-Building. Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutCoordination Centre Coordination Centre EMA is working with Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam to: establish theDARWIN EUCoordination Centre, and support it work to build a distributed data network; conduct scientific study and answer research question supporting regulatory decision-making by EMA's scientific committee and the ; maintain a catalogue of real world data source for use in the regulatory context and their metadata. The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre will be a key user of the future . The contract to establish the Coordination Centre wa awarded to Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam following a call for tender for a service provider published in June 2021. The group at the Department of Medical Informatics is leading the Establishment and Operational Phase of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre. Organisational Structure The DARWIN EU CC exists to run study within it data partner network, overseen by the Study and Network Operations pillars, respectively. These pillar are able to execute study and onboard Data Partners using tool (such a code and protocols) that have been created by the Development pillar and within an infrastructure that ha been created by the Technology pillar. The Technology pillar is also responsible for producing necessary project resources, such a the website and service desk. The overall operation of DARWIN EU is overseen by the Management pillar and with guidance from the Advisory Boards. Leadership Erasmus MC Executive Director Technology Pillar Lead Erasmus MC, Oxford University Deputy Director Development Pillar Lead Erasmus MC Deputy Director Study Operations Pillar Lead Synapse Research Management Partners Management Pillar Lead Erasmus MC Network Operations Pillar Lead Additional Members of the core team , Development Pillar Co-lead , MSc, Analytics Team Co-lead , Study Operations Co-lead , Technology Pillar Co-lead , Management Pillar Co-lead , Management Team Lead In addition, a large team of data scientists, epidemiologist and programmer are working for the Coordination Centre at Erasmus MC and it subcontractors. Contributing Organisations Organisation: Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC Description: The Erasmus University Medical Center is the largest of the eight university medical center in The Netherlands. The Department of Medical Informatics, chaired by Prof. dr. ir. Peter Rijnbeek, is an interdisciplinary research group within Erasmus MC that study new method for acquiring, representing, processing, and managing data and knowledge in health care and biomedical science and ha developed land marking infrastructure and software for distributed analysis of electronic health records. The Health Data Science research line of Prof. Rijnbeek is leading the , and the (EHDEN). The mission of the group is to produce clinically actionable insight from observational health data by enabling data-driven healthcare. Improved interoperability of data is a necessary pre-requisite for this mission. Learn more at Organisation: Clinical Investigation and Translational Science, NDORMS, University of Oxford Description: The Clinical Investigation and Translational Science division at the Botnar Research Centre (NDORMS, University of Oxford) includes the Clinical Trial Design and Medical Statistics and the Health Data Science sections. The Health Data Science section, led by Prof Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, includes a multidisciplinary team of over 30 staff and student with expertise in data sciences, engineering, epidemiology, and real world evidence. Learn more at: Organisation: Synapse Research Management Partners Description: Synapse is a firm specialized in the high quality management of complex research and development project in the biomedical sector. Synapse partner with national and international organisations, both public and private (pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, research institutes, academia, hospitals, etc.). Synapse ha a track record on research project that are highly innovative (open innovation, public private partnerships), large (with several million Euros funding), distributed (built on the collaboration of several institutions) and internationally oriented (with broad expertise in project funded by the European Commission). Learn more at . Organisation: Description: IQVIA is a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and clinical research service to the health sector across the globe. IQVIA creates intelligent connection across all aspect of healthcare through it analytics, transformative technology, big data resource and extensive domain expertise. IQVIA delivers powerful insight with speed and agility enabling life science industry customer to accelerate the clinical development and commercialization of innovative medical treatment and enabling government to ass and improve public health and population management, all leading to improved patient outcomes. With approximately 86,000 employees, IQVIA conduct operation in more than 100 countries. Learn more at . Organisation: The Hyve Description: The Hyve is an IT company that provides professional service for open source software. We specialize in the field of cancer genomics, translational data warehousing, real world data analytics and research data management. Our customer include the majority of top 20 pharmaceutical companies, major academic medical center in U.S. and Europe a well a biobanks, registry and patient organization throughout the world. Learn more at Organisation: Odysseus Data Services, Inc. Description: Odysseus is an established real-world evidence (RWE) solution provider enabling standardized systematic analytics of observational data at scale. Odysseus providing it customer with Software, Data Engineering and Data Science solution supporting large-scale RWE generation. Odysseus is an active OHDSI contributor in multiple key initiative and working groups, including design and development of such OHDSI platform a ATLAS/WebAPI, ARACHNE and ATHENA, OMOP CDM standards, curating and maintaining OMOP standard vocabulary a well a development of OHDSI analytical method (HADES) and OHDSI distributed network research. Odysseus created the ARACHNE platform with a goal of linking multiple distributed life science and healthcare organization into a single network to enable standardized federated analytics of observational data. Learn more at Data Partners The CC ha set up an agreement with a growing list of Data Partners to create it distributed network of data sources. More information about the Data Partners can be found on page. Last Updated: 12 May 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutWho is Involved? Who is involved? DARWIN EU ha multiple actors: , , , and . Data Partners DARWIN EU collaborates with data partner who help generate real-world evidence that can be used in scientific evaluation and regulatory decision-making. Data partner are partner who have access to raw data in-house or remotely, through ownership, public contract, third-party agreement or commercial license. Data partner enable DARWIN EU to use their data in it scientific study by executing analytic packages, and provide analysis result to the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre, in accordance with data protection and governancerules. For more information see the page. Coordination Centre The ha a key function in DARWIN EU. The CC provides a structure for developing and managing the network of data partners, including their training on process and study methods, evaluating their eligibility for performing studies, and monitoring the data quality. The CC will also be responsible for implementing and operating all the step in the , from feasibility request for study up until the final delivery of the study report to the EMA, where result are to be integrated within the EU regulatory decision making process. In addition, the Coordination Centre will be responsible for methodological development for DARWIN EU, a directed and instructed by EMA, and to interact with other relevant initiatives. The Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam wa selected a contractor in a public tendering procedure published in June 2021 to setup the Coordination Centre for the EMA. For more information see the page. European Medicines Agency The is responsible for providing leadership and direction, setting standard for DARWIN EU, contracting, instructing and overseeing the Coordination Centre and monitoring it performance. For question raised by the EU Medicines Regulatory Network requiring additional evidence to support regulatory decision-making, the EMA will coordinate the definition of the research question and define, with the requesting body, the study objective and possible study design option such a the study population, exposures, outcome and statistical measures. This information will be communicated to the Cordination Centre for a further feasibility assessment. Based on the feasibility assessment, the EMA, in consultation with the Cordination Centre, will decide on the relevance of conducting a study, specify eligibility criterion for the database to be included, identify relevant database and define the evidentiary standard to be applied in the study (e.g., data quality). The EMA will process the result of the analysis and the report of specific studies, feeding result into decision-making, a appropriate. To support the establishment of the DARWIN EU, a ha been set up by EMA. EU Medicines Regulatory Network The EU Medicines Regulatory Network includes the EMA (encompassing it scientific committee and working parties), national competent authority (NCAs) of Member States in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the European Commission. During the operation of DARWIN EU, the need for additional real-world evidence identified within the EU Medicines Regulatory Network to support regulatory activity will be submitted to and further discussed with EMA. Other Organisations Interactions between EMA and other organisations, institution and project can take place to improve the infrastructure, methodological standard and operational process of the DARWIN EU network. These interaction could take place with, for example: the (EHDS), of which DARWIN EU will be a key user and will need to be fully integrated and use the service provided by the EHDS; ongoing EU and national project in scope of DARWIN EU and relevant to the quality, transformation, maintenance or analysis of real-world datasets, including European networking initiative such a the (EHDEN) project, European platform for registry or the European Reference Networks (ERNs), which ha established registry platform for rare diseases; the (ENCePP) network, for integration and continuously updating of good methodological practice in pharmacoepidemiology, identification of data source and registration of studies; regulatory authority in third countries, to learn from their experience and to integrate learning such a governance and methodological aspects. Last Updated: 26 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutPrinciples & Policies Principles & Policies Table of content Data Protection The DARWIN EU Coordination Center (CC) executes study in it distributed data network using a federated approach in which analytical code is shared with the data partner and only aggregated study result are shared with the CC. In this privacy-by-design approach additional measure can be added, for example a minimum cell count, to comply to local governance rules. With each data partner an is setup that includes information about this procedure. More information about study execution can be found . The latest version of the Record of Processing Activities (ROPA) can be found under below. For more information also see the . Cookie Policy At the DARWIN EU Coordination Center website,we use cooky to enablethe technical functioning of thiswebsite.In addition, if you consent to it, we use cooky to collect your browsing experience on our website. This enables u tocollect anonymous statistic to help u improve our website and services. For more information see the in this website. Conflict of Interest The study and analysis conducted in DARWIN EU shall be conducted in accordance with the principle of scientific independence, a set out under the According to ENCePP, scientific independence mean that: the primary purpose of the study shall be to generate evidence of potential scientific or public health importance and not to promote the use of a medicinal product or any specific outcome; the design of the research shall aim at minimising any potential bias; any financial, commercial, institutional, or personal interest in a particular outcome of the study (i.e., in the result and their interpretation) at the level of the organisation(s) initiating or funding the study and of the coordinating study entity and/or the researcher(s) conducting the study, shall not influence any decision on the scientific aspect of the study in any direction, including data collection and analysis, interpretation and dissemination of the study results. Where relevant, the definition and principle set out under shall also be applied. Related content Related document List item First published: 18/03/2023 EMA/51069/2023 List item First published: 18/03/2023 Last Updated: 27 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data AboutWebinars DARWIN EU: multi-stakeholder information webinar Date: 24-02-2022 Location:Online, 10:30 - 12:00 Amsterdam time (CET) Event summary EMA organised a multi-stakeholder information webinar to: introduce DARWIN EU and the recently appointed Coordination Centre; highlight opportunity for collaboration and answer stakeholder questions. Video recording Documents Last Updated: 10 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Legal Notice Legal Notice Table of content Information onThe DARWIN EU website is subject to a disclaimer and copyright and limited reproduction notices. Disclaimer This website is managed by Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam (hereinafter "Coordination Centre" or "CC") on behalf of the European Medicines Agency (hereinafter "EMA") under a contract signed between the CC and EMA (see Official Journal ). The Coordination Centre maintains this website to enhancepublic accessto information on the activity it is performing on behalf of the European Medicines Agency. The CC's goal is to keep this information and material timely and accurate. If error are brought to it attention, the CC will try to correct them. The CC and EMA acceptno responsibility or liabilitywhatsoever (including, but not limited to, any direct or consequential loss or damage that might occur to you and/or any other third party) arising out of, or in connection with, the information on this site, including information relating to the document it may publish or link to. In particular, the CC and EMA shall be held harmless from, and indemnified against all costs, proceedings, claims, expense and liability whatsoever arising from any breach by any legal or natural person a a result of any representation or warranty providing to be a misrepresentation. The information the CC provides is: of a general nature only and is not intended to address the specific circumstance of any particular individual or entity; not necessarily comprehensive, complete, accurate or up to date; sometimes linked to external site over which the CC ha no control and for which the CC assumes no responsibility; not amounting to any professional or legal advice. It is the CC's goal to minimise disruption caused by technical errors. However, some data or information on the website may have been created or structured in file or format that are not error-free. The CC and EMA cannot guarantee that it service will not be interrupted or otherwise affected by such problems. The CC and EMA accept no responsibility whatsoever with regard to such problem incurred a a result of using this website. Copyright and limited reproduction notice The appearance and content of these webpage are subject to copyrights, whether of EMA or third party (" 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency.") Information and document made available on the DARWIN EU webpage are public and may be reproduced and/or distributed, totally or in part, irrespective of the mean and/or the format used, provided that DARWIN EUwebsite is always acknowledged a the source of the material. Such acknowledgement must be included in each copy of the material. Citations may be made from such material without prior permission, provided the source is always acknowledged. However, for document where the copyright vest in a third party, permission for reproduction must be obtained from this copyright holder. DARWIN EU Trademark and Logo DARWIN EU is a European Union figurative trademark owned by the European Medicines Agency (EUTM no. 018305237). Use of this trademark is prohibited without the prior written permission of the EMA. Citing this website To cite material from the DARWIN EU website, please list it with the URL, and the month and year you accessed it, using the following format: DARWIN EU: Expression of Interest(XLSX/188KB), https://darwin-eu.org/data/Expression.of.Interest.form.v.03a.xlsx, 27-03-2023 Links to this website The CC encourages organisation and individual to create link to it website under the following conditions: Links must not be used in a defamatory context. Linked information must not be changed in any way. Linked information to darwin-eu.org should not be displayed in a manner which suggests endorsement of any commercial product or service. Linked information to darwin-eu.org should not be displayed alongside advertising. Last Updated: 27 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency. About Data Cookie Policy Cookie Policy Table of content To make this website work properly, The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre (CC) place small data file called cooky on your device. Website visitor can decide whether or not to not be tracked by these cookies. They can delete the cooky at any time. About cooky A cookie is a small piece ofdatathat a website store on the visitor computer or mobile device. For the DARWIN EU Website theDARWIN EU Coordination Centreuses cooky to enablethe technical functioning of thiswebsite.In addition, if you consent to it, we use cooky to collect your browsing experience on our website. This enables u tocollectanonymous statisticsto help u improve our website and services. Different type of cookiesexist: First-party cooky are set by the website you are visiting and only that website can read them. A website might use first-party cooky from an external service to analyse how people use their site, such a JRealtime Analytics (see below). Third-party cooky are set and stored by a different website in a manner that is outsidethe control of the site you are visiting. Session cooky are temporarily saved in your web browser to enable a website to track your navigation, so you are not treated a a new user every time you go from page to page. They aredeleted automatically when you close your browser. Persistent cooky are saved on your computer for longer and not deleted automatically when you close your browser. JRealtime Analytics and it cooky JRealtime Analytics is the tool running on the server that monitor your browsing experience on this website. We use it to evaluate the website's effectiveness and efficiency. It is solely based on the native session cookie of Joomlato collect statistics. The DARWIN EU Coordination Centreretains full control of the data collected through this native cookie, by storing these dataon it own server. This platform enables the protection of personal data of usersthanks to feature such a the de-identification ofIP addresses. Consent to collecting your browsing experience We register yourbrowsing experience using cooky if they areenabled when you open a page. When you visit this website, a banner appears that givesyou the option to accept eitherallcookies or only essential cookies. If you accept only essential cookies, you stop JRealtime Analytics. If you accept all cookies, you enable JRealtime Analytics. If you do not make a selection and continue to browse the website, all cooky areenabled by default. Choosing to accept only essential cooky doe not affect your navigation experience on this website. You can decide to withdraw or give your consent to enabling all cooky at any time. The cookie popup will remain visible at the bottom of the webpage to change your preference. Data protection and JRealtime Analytics JRealtime Analytics us cookiesto track the following information about visitors: IP address (de-identified) Location(country, region, city, approximate latitude and longitude) Date and time of the visit Title of the page being viewed URL of the page being viewed URL of the page that wa viewed prior to the current page Time in the visitor'slocal time zone Duration of visit of page Links to another websitethat were clicked Time for webpage to be generated by the server and then downloaded by the visitor Browser type (Safari, Chrome, etc.) Operating system (Window, Mac, etc.) Device type (Desktop, Laptop, etc.) Restricted access to information Onlyauthorised staff of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre are authorised to access theanalytical report generated by JRealtime Analytics. These report are graphical representation of the item described above, for example visitor per country or a pie chart of the operating systems. They access these reportsthrough the administrative portal of the DARWIN EU Website. Masking of IP address JRealtime Analytics us anIP de-identification mechanismto automatically maska portion of each visitor's IP address. Thiseffectively makesit impossible to identify a particularvisitor using the IP address. For statistical purposes, the city and country of origin are determined from the full IP address, then stored and aggregated before the anonymisation mask is applied. Visitor log The DARWIN EU Coordination Centre store anonymised and aggregated data for an indefinite period for analysis purposes. Other cooky This website contains user-input cookies, which aresession cookies. These support the user feedback featurethatallows youto rate the usefulness of this website's page and to tell u more. This website doe not use any third-party cooky that are stored by a different website, butit doe contain link to audiovisual content from other website thatmay use these cookies. To viewthis content, you need to accept thespecific term and condition for the external website, which includes it cookie policies. The CC ha no control over the cookie policy of external websites. If you do not view the content, the external provider will not install anythird-party cooky on your device. Details about thecookie policy of other websitesare provided on their own cookie notice pages. 'Do not track' option 'Do not track'is a browser function that prevents website from trackingvisitors. If you have enabled the 'do not track' option in your browser, JRealtime Analytics will not process your browsing experience on this website. A number of browser have the 'do not track' option: Related content Last Updated: 29 March 2023 Disclaimer The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted a reflecting the view of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 2024 - 2023 European Medicines Agency. All right reserved. Certain part are licensed under condition to the European Medicines Agency.