The Big Data Value Association (BDVA) is an industry-driven organisation with a mission to develop an innovation ecosystem that enables the data-driven digital transformation of the economy and society in Europe.
BDVA has over 230 members all over Europe and a well-balanced composition of large, small, and medium-sized industries as well as research and user organizations. We focus on advancing in areas such as big data technologies and services, data platforms and data spaces, Industrial AI, data-driven value creation, standardisation, and skills. BDVA has been the private side of the H2020 partnership Big Data Value cPPP, it is a private member of the EuroHPC JU and is also one of the founding members of the AI, Data and Robotics Partnership.
In the BDVA Task forces, our members contribute to the European data, and AI R&I agenda and develop guidelines and strategic roadmaps for industry and policymakers. Our events give opportunities to build collaborations and co-create projects. Through the BDVA community, the members gain higher visibility on the European level. Our services are designed to give timely updates on all the latest developments in the fields of data and AI.
BDVA is an open and inclusive community and is always eager to accept new members who share these ambitious objectives. These include Data Users, Data Providers, Data Technology Providers and Researchers. BDVA enables existing regional multi-partner cooperation, to collaborate at European level through the provision of tools and knowhow to support the co-creation, development and experimentation of pan-European data-driven applications and services, and know-how exchange.


The General Assembly (GA) is conformed by all the BDVA members (only Full members have voting rights). BDVA GA approves the general policy of the Association on the basis of proposals of the Board of Directors and gives recommendations to the Board of Directors for its application.
The Board of Directors (BoD) is selected by the General Assembly (2-year mandate). The Board of Directors is in charge of reaching the objectives of the Association. It follows the resolutions, instructions and recommendations adopted by the General Assembly. The GA also elects the President, Vice President(s) and Treasurer.
The Secretary General (SG) is responsible for the day-to-day administrative management of the Association with the support of the BDVA Secretariat and Office Staff.

Task Forces (TFs) are the main instrument to develop BDVA activities and are established to take care of specific matters within the ‘Objectives’ of the Association under the authority of the BoD. TFs may focus on sector-specific or cross- disciplinary issues related to BDV. Find more about BDVA Task Forces here.

industry-driven organisation;
mission: develop an innovation ecosystem that enables the data-driven digital transformation of the economy and society in Europe;
focus on advancing in areas such as big data technologies and services, data platforms and data spaces, Industrial AI, data-driven value creation, standardisation, and skills
