The official portal for European data
The portal is a central point of access to European open data from international, European Union, national, regional, local and geodata portals. It consolidates the former EU Open Data Portal and the European Data Portal.


intended to:

give access and foster the reuse of European open data among citizens, business and organisations;

promote and support the release of more and better-quality metadata and data by the EU's institutions, agencies and other bodies, and European countries;

educate citizens and organisations about the opportunities that arise from the availability of open data.








Select your languageCloseOfficial EU languages:SearchSearchEuropean datadata.europa.euThe official portal for European dataCloseMenuBackPrevious itemsNext items

 
          
          10th anniversary of the Open Data Maturity report
          
        Celebrating a decade of open data developments in Europe          
          Discover the EU sanctions tracker
          
        An interactive dashboard to monitor the latest EU sanctions          
          Listen to the Open Data Cafe podcast
          
        Explore the six-episode podcast series all about open data          
          Start learning with the data.europa academy
          
        Your knowledge hub for open data with 11 thematic coursesPrevious slidesNext slidesPlay carouselPause carouselGo to slide 1Go to slide 2Go to slide 3Go to slide 41 of 4










Keywords


Datasets optionsDatasetsCataloguesEditorial content


Search

















 


1 713 817183351 53623611 



Latest content





News17 April 2024  On 12 April 2024, from 10.00 to 11.30 CET, the Data.europa Academy hosted the webinar Personal data management and altruism: how and when are individuals empowered to make data sharing...



News15 April 2024  The European Commission's adoption of the Interoperable Europe Act marks a key development in enhancing the EU's digital public sector. This Act is set to create a network of interconnected...



News12 April 2024  This week we celebrate the European Youth Week 2024 , an event organised every two years by the European Commission to celebrate and promote youth engagement and active citizenship across...









Overview


  Get access to your open data learning hub.



  Explore inspiring stories about open data and related topics.



  Stay informed about developments on open data.



  Get insights on the evolution of European countries open data maturity.



  Get practical help with all of the data-related aspects of your publications, from writing about data to visualising and publishing it.



  Learn how to use data visualisation in the best way possible for your publications and presentations.







Highlighted content





News10 April 2024  In today's digital landscape, maintaining privacy alongside open data efforts is essential. It involves safeguarding personal information from unauthorised access or sharing, ensuring...



News05 April 2024  What makes 2024 a big year for the digital landscape in Europe? Maybe the AI Act , the first-ever legal framework on AI, or recent progress in the health data space comes to mind. All good...



Data story08 March 2024  The European data strategy sets out the vision of creating a single market for data where it can flow freely within the EU and across sectors. The creation of EU-wide, common, interoperable...









Events






2024-04-1515 - 19Apr2024Leipzig, Germany 





2024-04-1818 - 20Apr2024Berlin, Online, Germany 





2024-04-2424 - 25Apr2024Stockholm, Online 















This site is managed by the Publications Office of the European Union.ContactResourcesFollow us onAbout usThe Publications Office of the European Union is the official provider of publishing services to all EU institutions, bodies and agencies. As such, it is the central point of access to EU law, and also to publications, data, research results, procurement notices and other official information. The Publication Office therefore plays a central role in informing the public about what the EU does and means for them, and in unlocking the power of data.Other servicesDiscover more on Contact the EUCall us 
Use other 
Write us via our 
Meet us at one of the Social mediaSearch for EU LegalEU institutionsEU InstitutionsSearch for 






























            Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU)
          



            
              Who we are
            
          

























            Initializing search
          

















    Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU)
  




          Who we are
          





      Table of contents
    




























          How to publish on data.europa.eu
          




          How to publish on data.europa.eu
        




























































      Table of contents
    























Who we are

Information
You can download and share the latest version of this documentation in the PDF format: 

 is a central point of access to European open data from international, European Union, national, regional, local and geodata portals. It consolidates the former EU Open Data Portal and the European Data Portal.
The portal is intended to:

give access and foster the reuse of European open data among citizens, business and organisations.
promote and support the release of more and better-quality metadata and data by the EUs institutions, agencies and other bodies, and European countries, enhancing the transparency of European administrations.
educate citizens and organisations about the opportunities that arise from the availability of open data.


The two former portals EU Open Data Portal and European Data Portal, launched respectively in 2012 and 2015, were originally established on the basis of  to promote accessibility to and the reuse of public sector information. The successor directives  and  confirmed and extended its action. The latter invites all the EU Member States to make available their public data resources, contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market and the proper development of the information society in the EU.
Currently in its third iteration, the portal merges the activities of the European Data Portal (which focused exclusively on EU Member States and other European countries) and of the EU Open Data Portal (which served data from the EU institutions, agencies, and bodies) into one.
It is funded by the EU and managed operationally by the  in cooperation with the  of the , responsible for EU open data policy.

Our mission, vision and values
The mission, vision and values of data.europa.eu are part of those from the Publications Office of the European Union (OP) with respect to open data.
OP mission. The Publications Office of the European Union is the official provider of publishing services to all EU institutions, bodies, and agencies. As such, it is a central point of access to EU law, publications, open data, research results, procurement notices and other official information. Its mission is to support EU policies and ensure that this broad range of information is available to the public as accessible and reusable data to facilitate transparency, economic activity, and the diffusion of knowledge.
OP vision. A well-informed EU, empowered by timely and effective access to trustworthy information and knowledge and benefiting from all the opportunities this brings to society and the economy.
OP values.

Transparency -- we facilitate transparency throughout the policy cycle of the EU institutions to enhance evidence-based decision-making, accountability, civic participation, and democracy.
Trustworthiness -- we strive to ensure that the content we provide is accurate and reliable so that citizens trust the EU as a provider of information.
Accessibility -- we believe access to information is a human right that all citizens should enjoy regardless of language, culture, disability, social status, location, technology, or the way they understand information.
Service orientation -- we are committed to continuously improving our services to both our institutional stakeholders and EU citizens because we want to contribute to the European project in the best possible way.


Translated metadata catalogue
The portal is a metadata catalogue. To foster the comparability of data published across borders, it presents metadata references using the application profile for data portals in Europe (), using Resource Description Framework (RDF) technology. It provides translations of metadata descriptions in all 24 official EU  using machine-translation technologies ().
In some situations, metadata machine-based translation might not be as efficient as human translation.

From raw data to services
Our services are focused around three main spheres:

Data providers -- any entity that gives access and distributes data to the public. To ensure the reliability of the published resources in the portal, the data providers of the portal are official representatives from supranational, national and local public administration. 
Data users -- any person or entity who accesses and consumes data for any purpose. These include a wide range of data users who visit the portal for different purposes: non-governmental organisations, international organisations, private sector, academia, students, etc.
Data literacy -- the ability to read, understand, create, and communicate data as information. Much like literacy as a general concept, data literacy focuses on the competencies involved in working with data.

The data providers (EU institutions, agencies and EU bodies, Member States, and other European countries) are autonomous in publishing their metadata (which gives you access to their data) in data.europa.eu. The portal also publishes datasets of organisations beyond the EU. The portal is being updated whenever new datasets and content are available.
In addition to the vast collection of public datasets, most of them published in open formats, we offer additional contents and related services:

training materials on open data in the 
studies such as  or ;
 and 
a  assessing metadata quality against various findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR) indicators
a 
the possibility of storing your data under certain conditions (please )
the social media channels (, , , )
a  with the most relevant events taking place
a monthly 

New features for registered users will be added soon to data.europa.eu. 
The whole source code of the portal is available at  for free reuse.
How to contribute to the portal: 
- Give us , for example, suggest new functionalities you would like to see on the portal
- 
-  in which we can promote the use of data
Open data in the European Union
Several policy and legal developments on EU open data have taken place since 2003.

2003 --  on the re-use of the public sector information (PSI) directive.
2011 --  on the reuse of Commission documents, established the basis for the former EU Open Data Portal, operated by the  (2012--2021).
2012 -- launch of the EU Open Data Portal, central point of access to open data from EU institutions, agencies, and bodies.
2013 --  amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the re-use of public sector information.
2015 -- launch of the European Data Portal publishing data from national, regional, and local open data portals.
2019 --  on open data and the re-use of public sector information recasts Directives  (PSI directive) and  setting up a legal framework of minimum requirements for Member States regarding the accessibility of public data resources. 
2020 --  (COM/2020/66) aiming at creating a single market for data for the benefit of businesses, researchers, and public administrations to ensure Europes global competitiveness.
2021 --  consolidates the former European Data Portal (data from the EU Member States and other European countries) and the former EU Open Data Portal (data from the EU institutions, agencies, and bodies) into the official portal for European data.
2022 -- the  sets a framework for fostering voluntary data sharing beyond open data 
2023 -- Entry into force of a , those that have a high potential for economic and societal impact


European open data space
The European open data space is an essential element of the single market for data -- an EU-wide interoperable data space that will enable the development of new products and services based on public data and industrial and scientific applications. It focuses on the implementation of EU open data and reuse policies under the legal acts adopted by the EU institutions. The Publications Office of the EU works on all four European open data space building blocks and their objectives:
- providing a comprehensive catalogue of open data and citizen-centric reuse services;
- improving the interlinking and interoperability of open data with other sources of public-sector information, such as legislation, publications and digital content;
- fostering the use of data from EU content through the organisation of  competitions and data visualisation events;
- contributing to the implementation of data governance and policies across the EU institutions.













       2023 European Commission
    
  
  
    Made with
    





























            Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU)
          



            
              Publications and education
            
          

























            Initializing search
          

















    Documentation of data.europa.eu (DEU)
  













          How to publish on data.europa.eu
          




          How to publish on data.europa.eu
        































          Publications and education
          





      Table of contents
    




























































      Table of contents
    



































Publications and education
Several publications, ranging from the yearly  report to specific  and  are available through data.europa.eu.
The portal offers social media coverage on open data topics, with the purpose of educating and informing citizens about the opportunities that using and reusing public data resources can bring. It also hosts the  and publishes a .
The  section offers a catalogue that includes hundreds of use cases from both publishers and people who reuse open data.
The portal is linked to other activities that demonstrate the potential of open data, such as the  (an annual open data competition), the  (a worldwide conference about open data and data visualisation) and different online seminar series (EU DataViz webinars, EU Open Data Explained webinars and data.europa academy webinars).
The portal also offers documentation on general recommendations for topics like data quality and data citation.
Finally, the portal researches and documents the impact of open data in reports such as the 2020 report on . The study forecasts the open data market size and employment growth for 2025. The impact is exemplified by efficiency gains and cost savings due to open data.
Open data maturity
The study on open data maturity serves as benchmark to gain insights into the development of European countries in the field of open data. This annual assessment, started in 2015, presents the overview to better understand the countries level of maturity on open data. The study captures their progress over time and areas of improvement and benchmarks them against other countries. The report assesses the maturity against four dimensions:

Policy
Portal
Impact
Quality

It also provides an overview of best practices implemented across Europe and a set of recommendations tailored to the level of maturity and characteristics of each group. Every year, the data is collected through a questionnaire sent to national open data representatives working in collaboration with the European Commission and the Public Sector Information Expert Group.
Data.europa academy
The is your knowledge hub on data. It helps you to become more knowledgeable about open data and become more data literate, with different courses hosting e-learnings, reports, webinars and related material. You will find an extensive learning offer depending on your profile (academia, civil servant, data provider, developer, journalist, NGO, private sector) or your level of expertise on data. They are also grouped per theme (business, communication, impact, legal, policy, portal, and quality).
Whether you are an expert or just getting started, you will find the information you need to upskill your data learnings!
News and data stories
Under news, you can find short articles about the latest activities, events, projects, initiatives, studies, trends and use cases related directly or indirectly to open data in Europe and beyond. If you would like your event, project, or initiative to be featured in our news section, .
Data stories
Data stories are a set of articles on a variety of topics related to the European Commissions priorities, showcasing relevant open data through data visualisations. The section also includes interviews, highlighting examples of good practices and innovative techniques related to open data across the world.
Studies
The portal commits to open data research and learning as key milestones to keep updating in this constantly changing data ecosystem. This section provides a full collection of the research developed on several topics.
Calendar
The events calendar features virtual and in-person events related directly and indirectly to open data in Europe and beyond. If you would like your event to be featured in this section of the portal, .
EU Open Data Days
The  in 2021, was the first-ever event of its kind and took place from 23 to 25 November 2021. It comprised , an international conference on open data and data visualisation, followed by the finals of , the annual open data competition.
The EU Open Data Days were designed to be relevant to all open data stakeholders and data users, with a special emphasis on the needs of the EUs public sector. The event attracted well over 2 000 registrations from data enthusiasts, data visualisation experts and solution-seekers. On the stage, different sectors of the society were represented, with more than 70 speakers coming from all around the world to bring their expertise for public administrations.
The EU Open Data Days were organised by the Publications Office of the EU, with the active support of over 60 partners, representing the data providers from EU institutions and agencies, European national open data portals and national statistical offices, the key digital players in Luxembourg.
You can access the  online.
EU Datathon
EU Datathon is an annual open data competition organised by the Publications Office of the EU since 2017. The competitions are organised to create new value for citizens through innovation and promote the use of open data available on .
EU Datathons gather teams of people from all over Europe to stimulate innovation, creating a bridge between citizens and the EUs administration. As a result, new applications are developed to improve existing services or create completely new ones. The competitions have also demonstrated that potential users do need these initiatives for visibility purposes before potential business partners.
Open data demonstrated in every edition how powerful it could be, in every sector of society. It showed us how it could help in the creation of start-ups, innovative products and services; it promotes transparency in the public sector, addresses current societal challenges, boosts economic growth and accelerates scientific progress.
Every EU Datathon competition showed innovation when teams tackled different challenges, such as helping to achieve the digital single market (e.g.  and ), making legislation more interoperable (e.g.  and ), offering innovative technology relating to medicines (e.g.  and ) or tackling climate change () through a platform which optimises irrigation to reduce water waste (e.g. ).
These examples, among others, uncover how accessible and reusable data can help to build a better future.
EU Datathons are organised in collaboration with partners in EU institutions and Member States to address domains of primary importance for citizens, the public sector and businesses: legislation, medications, food safety and public procurement, among others.
This interinstitutional collaboration highlights the common goals to be closer to citizens and support innovative start-ups. Additionally, by facilitating cooperation between public entities and the private sector, EU Datathons generate innovative ideas for open government, offering a platform for all sides to exchange information and learn.
Moreover, it is a new, more direct way of interaction between citizens, innovative youth and the EU administration and it can generate a positive atmosphere around the Commission and the EU institutions in general.
Newsletter
The  is sent to subscribers monthly. It provides an overview of the recent and upcoming events and activities of the portal, along with the most important news, events, and developments in the open data domain in Europe.
Subscribe to r. To unsubscribe, click on the Unsubscribe from this newsletter link at the bottom of the newsletter email.













       2023 European Commission
    
  
  
    Made with
    










