Digital Health Europe (DHE) was an Horizon2020 project that ended in September 2021. One of their results was the DHE catlaogue of digital solutions. --> find initiatives per country/stakeholder/policy priotities
The catalogue contains up-to-date 65 mature, highly impactful and replicable solutions which are the result of EU-funded projects and initiatives that address challenges related to the Digital Transformation of Health and Care policy priorities. The solutions have high potential for scaling up and replicability across Europe. 





































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























DigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solutions supporting the digital transformation of health and care 















No results 























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 






























DigitalHealthEuropeSupport to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single MarketDigital Solutions for Health and Care Management in Times of CoronavirusA catalogue of mature telehealth solutions which enable remote/tele-monitoring, ePrescribing and other remotely managed services during the COVID-19 pandemic. Better Implementation of Data Infrastructures and Secondary Uses of Health DataA DigitalHealthEurope White Paper explores the evolving European and national landscapes of health data-sharing for care and for researchDigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solutions supporting the digital transformation of health and careBrowse the database of 65 mature digital solutions resulting from EU-funded projects and initiatives that address challenges related to key policy priorities.Scaling up of Digitally-enabled Health and Care Solutions via TwinningsFind out more about the ongoing DigitalHealthEurope Twinnings awarded funding as a result of the DHE Calls for Twinnings. 


 Previous slide


 Next slide















DigitalHealthEurope recommendations on the European Health Data Space 







 







Supporting responsible health data sharing and use through governance, policy and practiceAfter almost two years of intense consultations with nearly 140 stakeholders and experts from diverse areas, DigitalHealthEurope has developed proposals for regulatory action, policy and strategy, as well as further actions of support to enable responsible health data sharing and use. These recommendations are directed towards the envisioned European Health Data Space (EHDS), which the European Commission will define in a specific legal framework until the end of 2021. Aim of the EHDS is to facilitate the sharing and uses of Real World Health Data within and especially beyond healthcare.In this context, DigitalHealthEurope presents 32 actionable recommendations addressing three significant transition challenges for the EHDS:From privacy protection to citizen protection.From citizen as data subject to citizen as key change agent in the health data ecosystem.From policy and regulatory frameworks to engagement, adoption and implementation. 











							49						















Empowering citizens and building a healthier society through digital health 











DigitalHealthEurope will providecomprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The projects approach involves a number of actions that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priorities for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), as outlined in the European Commissions 2018on the topic. The priorities concern:

citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across borders
better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care
digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care.

To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offers two forms of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020.
Support to large scale deployment of digital solutions for person-centred integrated care
DigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tools will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instruments and financing sources. The selected initiatives will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instruments such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisations will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklists and documented successful approaches. These results will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lessons learned.
Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder communities
DigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These communities directly address the three priorities.Each of the communities will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated experts and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcomes such as white papers, guidelines and policy recommendations.
DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The results will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended actions. 


























Latest News 





























 



							There are many digitally enabled health and care solutions and practices developed as part of Europe research & innovation projects, national funding programmes, private undertakings, competitions, etc., but it is oftentimes difficult to get						

































 



							Dementia and moderate cognitive impairment are some of the most common challenges faced by older citizens. Kwido Mementia has become a result of the twinning cooperation between Ideable Solutions, Spain (twinning originator) and the						

































 



							Video explaining the adoption of the Social-Health Folder twinning aimed at digitalisation of healthcare administration and management.						

































 



							During the course of its action, the Digital Health Europe (DHE) project has produced numerous valuable outputs, including white papers and recommendations, the DHE forum, collection of useful resources for people working in the						












































Tweets 



  























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent










































































 

 Menu








 














 
















View the Summit Recordings here! 












 













 













 





















Summary 











Figures that speak for themselves: 3 days, 12 sessions, 400 participants, 50 speakers
The Digital Health Europe Summit 2021 brought together EU policymakers, funders, digital health experts and other stakeholders for inspiring and forward-looking debates. Topics ranged from real-life transformation through digital health(Day 1),viaempowering citizens(Day 2)toscaling up innovation through health data(Day 3).
Digital transformation is undoubtedly ongoing in the healthcare sector. However, it still lacks the right type of support, which can jeopardise the success of this process including the future European Health Data Space. The DHE Summit aimed to scrutinise the drivers and barriers of digital transformation through different lenses. 
The DHE Summit was a unique event which offered a very complex, multifaceted and diverse approach to the facts and challenges of digital transformation. Sessions zoomed in on infrastructure needs such as cloud computing, data connectivity and interoperability across borders. Experts discussed the human factors of the process such as capacity building or citizen empowerment. A panel was dedicated to expected promising results and currently fatal diseases which medicine will be able to soon overcome thanks to health data-based research and innovation. 
Last but not least of all, a representatives of the European Commission shared with the audience what the future perspectives are and how all the efforts from different stakeholders will come into place to implement a common European vision on health data. 
is a projectwhichhas received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.Itprovidescomprehensive supportto the European Commission and Member States toadvance the Digital Single Market priorities for the digital transformation of health and care, as outlined in the. 
























Agenda 











 







Tuesday, 28 Sept., 9:00 - 12:00:Real-life transformation through digital health 



9:00  10:00 CEST  1: Introduction to the topicMarco Marsella (DG CNECT)Policy context  Dr. Birgit Morlion (DG CNECT)Keynote speech  Esko Aho (former Prime Minister of Finland)Introduction to DigitalHealthEurope  Dr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)10:00  11:00 CEST  2: Digital transformation through replication of European best practices in health and careStrahil Birov (empirica)Jon Switters (FUNKA)Dr. Oscar Zanutto (Twinning SoCaTel)Helena Biancuzzi (Twinning OncologyInMotion)Mathieu Thbaud (Twinning REHABLAB4ALL) Benjamin Cid-Bouri (Twinning CISMED)Campbell MacLeod and Lasse Kaalby Mller (Twinning CCEResearchInfrastructure)Jlia Altarriba and Dr. Rosana Magalhes (Twinning AI4MultimorbidityConditions) 












DHE has been supporting healthcare providers and the wider digital health and care ecosystem in scaling up best practices through collaboration and partnership building. Learn about the different support services DHE offers, as well as some of the successes achieved thanks to DHEs twinnings  small knowledge exchange projects which have resulted in adoption of innovation solutions across Europe. 






11:00  11:15 CEST  Coffee Break11:15  11:55 CEST  3: Going digital: Sustainable approaches to scaling up, knowledge sharing and capacity buildingDonna Henderson (European Health Telematics Association)Dr. Maddalena Illario (European Reference Site Collaborative Network)Dr. Niamh Lennox-Chhugani (International Foundation for Integrated Care)Dr. Gian Matteo Apuzzo (Central European Initiative) 












Building on the learnings and the outcomes of the previous session, speakers will take stock of horizontal and vertical challenges of scaling-up in a sustainable way. As a response, those skills and capacities will be elaborated on which can help to solve and overcome these challenges. DHE has developed a capacity building framework that can support a wide range of digital health stakeholders to build their capacities in a hands-on manner. Discussion between DHE consortium partner networks will be triggered on how they deal with cross-border skills development, particularly in Central Europe.






11:55  12:00 CEST  4: Day 1 ClosingDr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)Moderator: Dr. Jos Martinez Usero (FUNKA) 











Wednesday, 29 Sept., 14:00 - 16:30:Empowering citizens through health data 



14:00  14:40 CEST  1: Patient-centred health and careDiane Whitehouse (European Health Telematics Association)Nicola Bedlington (European Patients Forum)Lyudmil Ninov (European Patients Forum)Ivett Jakab (European Patients Forum Youth Group)David Magboul (LabToMarket) 












Digitalisation is undoubtedly changing health and care today. Digital health can be fundamental to enhance integration between health and social care and to better manage healthcare systems and services. The road to a full uptake of digital, however, is still very fragmented. If it is true that the COVID-19 crisis has greatly accelerated this process, it has also put under the spotlight once again how access to digital health is very much unequal, organised in different ways across Europe. Furthermore, digital health is not yet fully enabling nor based on collaboration between patients and healthcare professionals nor on co-design.






14:40  15:10 CEST  2: Citizens health data sharingCarina Dantas (European Connected Health Alliance)Prof. Mark Lawler (European Cancer Organisation / Queens University Belfast)Nilsy Desaint (MSD)Danny van Roijen (European Coordination Committee of the Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT Industry)Gzde Susuzlu Briggs (Data Saves Lives / European Patients Forum) 












Thousands of Europeans have begun to share health data purposefully in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. The debate around citizen-controlled health data sharing especially regarding adequate governance models has, however, been ongoing for much longer. This session explores citizens-centred data sharing. It starts with a COVID-19 use case, and complements it with the results from a large-scale survey on citizens attitude towards health data sharing. Finally, we will consider citizens and patients perspectives on the topic.






15:10  15:20 CEST  Coffee break15:20  15:50 CEST  3: Accelerating health data connectivityDr. Henrique Martins (DigitalHealthEurope)Dr. Rainer Thiel (empirica)Dr. Dipak Kalra (European Institute for Innovation through Health Data / European Institute for Health Records)Sara Riggare (Uppsala University) 












Lack of health data connectivity is still a problem across the EU. Heterogenous levels of connectiveness between health organisations and between health organisations and citizens/patients in Member States is still prevalent. Citizens are key actors to accelerate health data connectivity under two conditions. First, if tools are available to empower them and second, if the right climate of health data activism is created in society which can nurture citizens demand for health data interoperability.






15:50  16:20 CEST  4: Data-driven health and care: Is the future federated?Dr. Oliver Zobell (Research Centre Jlich)Prof. Dr. Jan Baumbach (University of Hamburg)Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan (University of Cologne)Prof. Dr. Andr Dekker (Maastricht University) 












In this session, experts will discuss solutions for on-demand access to federated datasets and to cloud computing resources, and how these have the potential to accelerate the digital transformation of health and care.






16:20-16:30 CEST  5: Closing Day 2Dr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)Moderator: Carola Schulz (empirica) 







 











 







Thursday, 30 Sept., 14:00 - 16:30: Scaling up innovation through health data 



14:00  14:20 CEST  1: Keynote speechUpdate on European Health Data Space  Ioana-Maria Gligor (DG SANTE)14:20  15:15 CEST  2: Better data to promote research, disease prevention and personalised health and careDr. Dipak Kalra (European Institute for Innovation through Health Data / European Institute for Health Records)Birgit Bauer (Digital Health & Social Media Entrepreneur) Dr. Emmanuel Bacry (Health Data Hub)Tomaz Gornik (Better)Jesper Kjr (Danish Medicines Agency)Prof. Dr. Denis Horgan (European Alliance for Personalised Medicine) 












This session will present the drivers, approaches and success factors for scaling up the availability and uses of health data to accelerate research and the delivery of personalised medicine. The DHE findings from several multi-stakeholder consultations and the assessment of several digital health and eResearch programmes will be summarised. Europes scalability and acceptability challenges will be presented and discussed by a panel of experts.






15:15  15:25 CEST  Coffee break15:25  16:10 CEST  3: Ensuring innovation through health data  where to next?Dr. Zoi Kolitsi (DHE)Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers (European University Cyprus / Oxford University)Nick Schneider (German Federal Ministry of Health)Steven Vermeulen (EBRAINS)Dr. Ilias Iakovidis (DG CNECT)Dr. Tapani Piha (SITRA) 












Since the first EC communication on the EDS, much has come into shape and more is to yet be defined for the health specific EHDS. The DHE Recommendations reflect a high degree of congruence on the important issues and challenges, albeit some discrepancies across the multiple stakeholder communities. What is next? This session aims to peek into what might lie ahead through the lens of several perspectives, brought in by thought- leaders across a broad array of priority challenges.






16:10  16:30 CEST  4: Whats next for Digital Health in EuropeMarco Marsella (DG CNECT) Dr. Veli Stroetmann (empirica)Moderator: Dr. Petra Wilson 
























Speakers 
























 











Esko Aho 



							Chairman of the Board, Former Prime Minister						



							Cinia Oy / Adven Group						



							Esko Aho is Chairman of the Board of Cinia Oy and Adven Group and on the Supervisory Board of Sberbank.						



							Esko Aho is Chairman of the Board of Cinia Oy and Adven Group and on the Supervisory Board of Sberbank. He is a member of Europe, Middle East and Africa Advisory Council at JP Morgan. Mr. Aho was a Member of the Finnish Parliament 1983  2003 and Prime Minister 1991  1995. Under his leadership, Finland joined the European Union. After his political career, Mr. Aho was a President of the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra and after that Executive Vice President at Nokia Corporation. He was an Executive Chairman of the Board of East Office of Finnish Industries 2013  2019. At present he is Senior Advisor at East Office. Furthermore he served as a member of the Executive Board at the International Chamber of Commerce 2013  2019. He acted as Chairman of the Board at ICC Executive Board Policy and Commissions Committee for four years. He is an invited member of Club de Madrid, an independent organization of former heads of state and government dedicated to strengthening democracy.						



































 











Ioana-Maria Gligor 



							Head of Unit						



							Digital Health and European Reference Networks, DG SANTE						



							Ioana Gligor is Head of Unit in DG  SANTE, responsible for Digital Health and European Reference Networks.						



							Ioana Gligor is Head of Unit in DG SANTE, responsible for Digital Health and European Reference Networks. Ioana worked previously on health issues in DG Employment, with a focus on the European Semester and European Social Fund. Before joining DG SANTE, she worked in the Secretariat General of the European Commission, in DG Employment and Social Affairs and she started her career in European Institutions in the Cabinet of Commissioner Orban. Before joining the EU institutions, Ioana worked in the Romanian Ministry of European Integration and was spokesperson for the Chief Negotiator with the EU. She studied political sciences and EU affairs, with a specialisation at the College of Europe in the law and economics of internal market. She has a PhD in international relations.						



































 











Marco Marsella 



							Head of Unit eHealth, Well-being, and Ageing						



							DG CNECT						



							Marco Marsella is Head of the eHealth, Well-being, and Ageing Unit in the Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology.						



							Marco Marsella is Head of the eHealth, Well-being, and Ageing Unit in the Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) of the European Commission. From 2016 to June 2018, Marco Marsella was leading the Unit responsible for the Web Accessibility Directive, Safer Internet and Language Technologies. He has worked on policy development, innovation and research implementation in the areas of digital content, technologies for learning, e-inclusion and assistive technologies.						



































 











Dr. ir. Birgit Morlion 



							Programme and Policy Officer						



							European Commission DG CNECT						



							Dr. ir. Birgit Morlion works on the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market.						



							Birgit Morlion is an engineer (PhD) with a mission to make digital health come true. In May 2017 she joined the eHealth, well-being and ageing unit of the European commission (DG Connect) where she works on the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market, more specifically with a focus on mobile health (mHealth), integrated care and active and healthy ageing. Before joining the Commission she was actively involved in eHealth research and facilitating the adoption of digital innovation in health and care in Belgium. She was part of the start-up team of the Flemish digital research and innovation institute iMinds; helping to bridge the gap between research and exploitation of results. She also occupied strategic advisory roles for the Flemish and the Belgian Ministers of health in the domain of medical data-exchange and patient access to his electronic medical records.						



































 











Dr. Ilias Iakovidis 



							Adviser on Green Digital Transformation						



							DG CNECT						



							Ilias Iakovidis, PhD, is an Adviser on Green Digital Transformation at the European Commission, DG CONNECT.						



							Ilias coordinates the EU wide initiatives to improve the energy and material efficiency of ICT. He is focused on maximising the benefits of green digital transformation for environment, society and economy. With works with European Green Digital Coalition to develop science-based methods to estimate the net impact of digital solutions on environment & climate. Ilias is working also on digitalisation for circular economy (e.g. digital product passport). Before 2017, Ilias worked on the EU eHealth and ICT for Ageing well agenda for over 20 years. Areas he pioneered include Virtual Physiological Human; Personal Health Systems and Electronic Health Records.						



































 











Dr. Tapani Piha 



							Senior Adviser						



							SITRA						



							Tapani Piha has worked at the Ministry of Health and of Foreign Affairs in Finland as well as at the WHO Regional Office for Europe.						



							Tapani Piha has worked at the Ministry of Health and of Foreign Affairs in Finland as well as at the WHO Regional Office for Europe. He worked in the European Commission from 2001 to 2018. His main assignments were heading the unit for digital transformation in healthcare and on health law. Back in Finland since 2019, he is advising the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Innovation Fund Sitra on digital health, use of health data and EU health policies. He works also as Special Adviser on digital health and healthcare in the Fipra International Network.						



































 











Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers 



							Research Associate, University of Oxford / Oxford Internet Institute						



							European University Cyprus						



							Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers is research associate at the University of Oxford (Oxford Internet Institute) and professor at European University Cyprus.						



							Prof. Dr. Paul Timmers is research associate at the University of Oxford (Oxford Internet Institute) and professor at European University Cyprus. He is also a visiting professor at Rijeka University, senior advisor to EPC Brussels, board member of Digital Enlightenment Forum and supervisory board member of the Estonian eGovernance Academy. He has been Director at the European Commission dealing with EU legislation and funding for cybersecurity, e-ID, digital privacy, digital health, smart cities, e-government. He was also cabinet member of European Commissioner Liikanen and until recently advisor to the European Commission, DG SANTE on digital health. He is CEO of iivii BV.						



































 











Dr. Veli Stroetmann 



							Head of Digital Health Research and Policy & Director						



							empirica						



							Dr. Veli Stroetmann is Director of empirica Communication and Technology Research and coordinator of DigitalHealthEurope.						



							Dr. Veli Stroetmann, MD, PhD, is Director of empirica Communication and Technology Research and Head of Digital Health Research and Policy. She obtained an MD degree from the Academy for Medical Sciences in Sofia and a PhD in Medical Informatics. Over the last 25 years, she has been coordinator and principal investigator for European Union funded studies and projects on digital health policies and strategies, market research, business modelling, impact and regulatory assessment, socio-economic impact assessment and evaluation. Currently she is coordinating a large EU Support Action DigitalHealthEurope: Support to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market. She led an EC study to support the scaling up of innovations in active and healthy ageing through twinning actions. She is also leading work to advance the European Blueprint for Digital Transformation of Health and Care, a key policy activity within the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing. Dr. Stroetmann is editor and co-author of numerous European policy and research roadmaps and articles on digital health strategies of EU Member States, semantic interoperability, eHealth innovation and scaling up personalised health services, learning health system, integrated care, digital patient research, in-silico medicine. She is an Executive Board member of the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data (i~HD).						



































 











Jlia Altarriba 



							COO						



							HumanITcare						



							Jlia Altarriba is the COO of HumanITcare and she is responsible for leading multiple projects.						



							Jlia Altarriba is the COO of HumanITcare and she is responsible for leading multiple projects, as well as organizing the different operations of the company. Her background includes a BA in Physics, an MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation in Biomedical Engineering and a specialization course on Project Management. She has vast experience in health since she has been part of the radiology unit of the Hospital Clnic de Barcelona as a physicist.						



































 











Dr. Gian Matteo Apuzzo 



							Project Manager						



							Central European Initiative						



							Dr. Gian Matteo Apuzzo is an urban sociologist and EU policies expert, with a PhD in Social Sciences on urban exclusion and social foresight.						



							Urban sociologist and EU policies expert, with a PhD in Social Sciences on urban exclusion and social foresight, he has a long-time experience as a consultant, teacher, and researcher  matured in different countries and contexts. Since 2009 he has been working as senior researcher and project manager for the Friuli Venezia Giulia regional health system organisations on the topics of digital health, active and healthy ageing, integrated care, social innovation. Currently working at the Central European Initiative (CEI) as senior expert on health/social policies, he is the focal point of a CEI-WHO Task Force in response to COVID-19.						



































 











Dr. Emmanuel Bacry 



							Scientific Director						



							Health Data Hub 						



							Emmanuel Bacry currently serves as the Scientific Director of the French Health Data Hub. 						



							Emmanuel Bacry currently serves as the Scientific Director of the French Health Data Hub. In parallel, he is a Senior Researcher at CNRS (French National Centre for Scientific Research) at Paris Dauphine University. For over 4 years, he served as a Mathematics Professor as well as the head of the Big Data & Data Science Initiative at Ecole Polytechnique. National and international AI expert and general chair of various summer schools on AI and data science, Emmanuel Bacry is also a member of several French and international scientific boards and committees. Emmanuel studied Mathematics at ENS (cole normale suprieure de Paris) where he graduated in 1992. He additionally obtained his Accreditation to Supervise Research (Habilitation  diriger des recherches) in 1996.						



































 











Birgit Bauer 



							Patient Expert,  Digital Health & Social Media Entrepreneur						



							Manufaktur fr Antworten						



							Birigt Bauer, Patient Expert, Digital Health & Social Media Entrepreneur, Manufaktur fr Antworten						



































 











Prof. Dr. Jan Baumbach 



							Chair of Computational Systems Biology						



							University of Hamburg						



							Since January 2021, Jan Baumbach is the chair of Computational Systems Biology (Cosy.Bio) at the University of Hamburg.						



							Jan Baumbach studied computer science at Bielefeld University in Germany. In October 2012, he moved to the University of Southern Denmark as head of the Computational BioMedicine group. His research concentrated on systems and network biomedicine. He was study programme coordinator of the Computational BioMedicine program from 2015 to 2017. In January 2018 he moved to the Technical University of Munich as chair of the Experimental Bioinformatics (ExBio), where he developed computational methods for systems medicine and novel federated AI approaches ensuring privacy by design. In January 2021, the lab relocated to the University of Hamburg where Jan Baumbach became chair of Computational Systems Biology (Cosy.Bio).						



































 











Nicola Bedlington 



							Special Advisor						



							European Patients Forum						



							Nicola Bedlington is the special advisor to the European Patients Forum, and was its first Executive Director and Secretary from 2006 to 2019.						



							Nicola Bedlington is the special advisor to the European Patients Forum, and was its first Executive Director and Secretary General from 2006 to 2019. Nicola was also the first Director of the European Disability Forum, (1996 to 1999). Prior to this, she headed the NGO unit within HELIOS, a European Commission Action Programme promoting equal opportunities for disabled people (1991-1996). From 2004 to 2006, she led the Environment and Schools Initiatives Secretariat (ENSI), an international government-based network set up by OECD focussing on Education for Sustainable Development.						



































 











Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan 



							Full Professor, Institute for Medical Informatics						



							University of Cologne						



							Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan is the director of the Medical Informatics Institute at the Medical Faculty of the University of Cologne. 						



							Prof. Dr. Oya Beyan is the director of the Medical Informatics Institute at the Medical Faculty of the University of Cologne and leads a medical data integration center. Beyans research focuses on health data reusability, semantic interoperability, and data science with the goal of continuously improving health care through innovation and creating new knowledge. She focuses on the potential of data-driven medicine through the development of artificial intelligence and machine learning, without losing sight of fairness, equity, privacy, and confidentiality of individuals as well as social groups and communities.						



































 











Helena Biancuzzi 



							Independent Researcher						



							Ipazia Observatory on Gender Research / OncologyInMotion Twinning						



							Helena Biancuzzi, JD., is completing her Masters Degree in business economics. In 2018-19, she was a research fellow at the Department of Economics and Statistics of the University of Udine, Italy. She is a Member of Ipazia, the Observatory on Gender Research. In 2019 and 2020, she was the winner of the European grant DigitaHealthEurope  in the context of Digital Single Market strategy. She authored several papers in the field of Public Management, particularly in the healthcare sector, co-production processes, and knowledge translation.						



































 











Strahil Birov 



							Research Consultant						



							empirica						



							Strahil Birov is the project manager of DigitalHealthEurope (DHE), with a special focus on facilitating the DHE twinning activities.						



							Strahil Birov is the project manager of DigitalHealthEurope (DHE), with a special focus on facilitating the DHE twinning activities among European healthcare providers, aimed as transferring knowledge and lessons learnt from one country to another. At empirica, Strahil has been involved in a wide variety of digital health projects and studies. His key work domains at empirica include policy development, public procurement of innovation (PCP, PPI) development of innovative ICT solutions (technical specifications, piloting and testing), impact assessment/cost-benefit analysis, market research, business modelling, process model development, online survey design and administration.						



































 











Benjamin Cid-Bouri 



							International Affairs Directorate						



							General Pharmaceutical Council of Spain						



							Benjamin Cid-Bouri is pharmacist in the International Affairs Directorate of the General Pharmaceutical Council of Spain.						



							Benjamin Cid-Bouri is pharmacist in the International Affairs Directorate of the General Pharmaceutical Council of Spain. Having joined the organisation in 2018, he is part of the DHE Twinning on CISMED, the information system that pharmacies have in Spain for reporting automatically and in real time the problems of short supply of medicines. Previously, he worked for the Councils Medicines Information Centre where he was the primary source of information about the situation of medicines and medical devices. Benjamin was trained as a pharmacist at Universidad Complutense de Madrid and he holds a Master degree in market access.						



 





















 











Carina Dantas 



							International Projects Manager						



							ECHAlliance						



							Carina Dantas is CEO of SHINE 2Europe, Senior Project Manager for ECHAlliance.						



							Carina Dantas is CEO of SHINE 2Europe, Senior Project Manager for ECHAlliance, Management member of The Digital Health Society and member of the Standing Committee on Policy and Advocacy of the International Health Literacy Association. She is Chair of the COST Action NET4Age-Friendly, Coordinator of the Stakeholders Network on SHAFE and Vice-President of the European Covenant on Demographic Change. Carina is evaluator/reviewer for EC, Eureka, AAL, EIT Digital; member of the Expert Team developing the EU Ethics framework for the ICT Profession (CEN/CENELEC); Team Leader of expert group designing the AAL Reference Guidelines for Ethics, Data Privacy and Security.						



































 











Prof. Dr. Andre Dekker 



							Full Professor Clinical Data Science						



							Maastricht University, Maastricht UMC+, Maastro Clinic						



							Andre Dekker, PhD (1974) is a medical physicist and professor of Clinical Data Science at Maastricht UMC+ and Maastro Clinic in The Netherlands.						



							Andre Dekker, PhD (1974) is a medical physicist and professor of Clinical Data Science at Maastricht UMC+ and Maastro Clinic in The Netherlands. His Clinical Data Science research group (40+ staff) focuses on 1) federated FAIR data infrastructures, 2) AI for health outcome prediction models and 3) applying AI to improve lives of patients and citizens. Prof. Dekker has authored over 170 publications, mentored more than 30 PhD students and holds multiple awards and patents on the topic of federated data and AI. He has held visiting scientist appointments at universities and companies in the UK, Australia, Italy, USA and Canada.						



































 











Nilsy Desaint 



							Director Public Policy Europe						



							MSD						



							Nilsy Desaint joined the global biopharmaceutical company MSD in early 2015 as Associate Director, Public Policy in Belgium.						



							Nilsy Desaint joined the global biopharmaceutical company MSD in early 2015 as Associate Director, Public Policy in Belgium, specialised in oncology policy and corporate communications. Prior to MSD, Nilsy was Communications Manager at the European Association for Bioindustries (EuropaBio). She started her career in Public Relations agencies in Brussels and Montreal (Canada), advising a wide range of corporate clients, not-for-profit organisations and international bodies in the health and agri-food sectors. In the EU public policy team based out of Brussels, Nilsy leads MSDs engagement on EU vaccines policy and is the co-chair of the Vaccines Europe Public Affairs Working Group. Nilsy has followed various digital health files, from GDPR implementation to digital transformation of health care and AI.						



































 











Tomaz Gornik 



							Founder and CEO / Co-chair						



							Better / openEHR International						



							Tomaz has a proven track record of delivering innovative turn-key solutions for large clients in telecommunications, finance and healthcare.						



							As a company founder, CEO and experienced manager of teams building world-class software products for more than 30 years, Tomaz has a proven track record of delivering innovative turn-key solutions for large clients in telecommunications, finance and healthcare. He is a co-chair of the openEHR International Management Board and regularly speaks at international conferences including TeleManagement Forum, HIMSS, Health 2.0, Mobile World Congress, ReWired.						



































 











Donna Henderson 



							President						



							EHTEL						



							In January 2021, Donna was appointed as President of the European Health Telematics Association (EHTEL).						



							In her role as Head of International Engagement, Donna leads the Scottish Governments Digital Health and Care Directorates International Engagement Team. The Teams objectives are to enhance Scotlands reputation as a leader in digital health and care, facilitate knowledge exchange between other countries and regions, and promote economic opportunities for Scotland. Donna has been actively involved in European projects since 2012 and was Chair of the EIP on AHA B3 Action Group on Integrated Care from 2015 to 2018. She is currently Project Co-ordinator for the EU Health Programme funded project SCIROCCO Exchange which has developed an online self-assessment tool for regions to assess the maturity of their health and care systems for the adoption of integrated care. In January 2021, she was appointed as President of the European Health Telematics Association (EHTEL). She was also proud to be recognised by HIMSS as a Future50 Class of 2021 Government Leader in May 2021.						



































 











Prof. Dr. Denis Horgan 



							Executive Director						



							European Alliance for Personalised Medicine						



							Prof. Denis Horgan was a policy advisor in the European Parliament and worked with various international NGOs on health development projects.						



							Prof. Denis Horgan, is a former Director of the European Cancer Patient Coalition, who was also a policy advisor in the European Parliament and worked with various international NGOs on health development projects. In addition, he has published over fifty academic articles related to the area of personalised medicine. Today, Denis is the Editor in Chief of the journal entitled Public Health Genomics and he is the Executive Director from the European Alliance of Personalised Medicine (EAPM). The mix of EAPM members provides extensive scientific, clinical, caring and training expertise in personalised medicine and diagnostics, across patient groups, academia, health professionals and industry. Relevant departments of the European Commission have observer status, as does your own organisation, of course. In the relatively short time since it was formed, EAPM has been in the vanguard of raising the profile and explaining the possibilities of personalised medicine in Europe.  In recent years this has created an observable institutional shift in policy due to the issues that the Alliance has put forward through its multi-stakeholder membership and bottom-up policy making.						



































 











Dr. Maddalena Illario 



							Co-chair						



							European Reference Site Collaborative Network						



							MD, PhD, Maddalena Illario is endocrinologist, Associate Professor at Federico II Department of Public Health.						



							MD, PhD, Maddalena Illario is endocrinologist, Associate Professor at Federico II Department of Public Health, and Coordinator of the R&D Unit of Federico II Hospital. She is co-chair of the European Reference Site Collaborative Network and was coordinator of Campania Region Division for Health Innovation until July 2020. Maddalena has been involved in several projects focusing on the digital transformation of health and care and is currently national referent for the Cost Action CA19136  NET4AGEFRIENDLY. Since May 2015, she has been coordinator of A3 of the Action Group on Prevention of Frailty and Functional Decline of the EIPonAHA. In addtion, is coordinator of Campania Reference Site of the European Partnership on Aging Healthy and Active.						



































 











Ivett Jakab 



							President						



							European Patients Forum Youth Group						



							Ivett Jakab is a patient advocate and health economics researcher currently serving as the President of the European Patients Forum Youth Group.						



							Ivett Jakab is a patient advocate and health economics researcher currently serving as the President of the European Patients Forum Youth Group.						



































 











Lasse Kaalby Mller 



							Grant Writer, Ph.D. Student						



							Odense Universitetshospital og Svendborg Sygehus, CCEResearchInfrastructure Twinning						



							Lasse Kaalby Mller is employed as both Ph.D. student and Grant Writer at the Department of Surgery at Odense University Hospital.						



							Lasse Kaalby Mller is employed as both Ph.D. student and Grant Writer at the Department of Surgery at Odense University Hospital. Besides his own epidemiological research in early detection of colorectal cancer, he is also heavily involved in the Colon Capsule Endoscopy (CCE) initiatives. These range from the large-scale clinical trial CareforColon 2.015 to the research database GAIA including pursuing international collaborations. His work in these initiatives centers on data management, development and implementation of IT-solutions and research-related tasks. His Grant Writer responsibilities include project management and facilitation of our funding activities mainly focusing on large external grants, such as Horizon Europe.						



































 











Prof. Dr. Dipak Kalra 



							President						



							i~HD / Eurorec						



							Professor Dipak Kalra is President of the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data.						



							Professor Dipak Kalra is President of the European Institute for Innovation through Health Data, which promotes the learning health ecosystem by developing solutions to scale up the trustworthy uses health data.Dipak has led multiple European projects, and developed ISO standards, in EHR interoperability, data protection, business models and the reuse of EHRs for research. Current projects include generating real worldevidence in pregnancy and several disease areas, the design and governance of patient-centric clinical trials, multi-stakeholder perspectives and governance recommendations on the European Health Data Space,the collection of outcomes by hospitals and promoting the value of research to the public.						



































 











Jesper Kjr 



							Director Data Analytics Centre						



							Danish Medicines Agency						



							Having worked in the academic environment and pharmaceutical industry, Jesper Kjr has 20+ years experience in his field.						



							Director of the Data Analytics Centre at the Danish Medicines Agency. 20+ years experience in data management, analyses and data visualisation having worked in the academic environment and pharmaceutical industry, and he has also developed IT systems for the World Health Organization (HIV viral genetics) and University Hospital of Copenhagen (AI supported treatment). Supported HIV observational research by leading the development of data and data management standards widely used globally (HICDEP: HIV Cohorts Exchange Protocol and HIV-DDM: HIV Distributed Data Management). He has also led the development of risk-based monitoring IT at a pharmaceutical company and has headed activities in EU Framework Programmes (EuroSIDA, EuroCoord, COHERE, CHAIN etc), TransCelerate Biopharma (Patient Technology, eSource) and HL7 (Project Vulcan). Currently the Data Analytics Centre and the Danish Medicines Agency is involved in establishing patient level data analysis of both RCT and RWD to support the regulatory processes.						



































 











Dr. Zoi Kolitsi 



							Digital Health Strategist						



							i~HD/Eurorec						



							 seasoned digital health expert with 20y+ history of eHealth policy support including a decade in the Greek Public Health Administration.						



							PhD Med. Phys. A seasoned digital health expert with 20y+ history of eHealth policy support including a decade in the Greek Public Health Administration as a senior policy advisor. Currently, the Digital Health Strategist at the Institute of Innovation through Health Data (I~HD), deeply engaged in diverse aspects of digital innovation in healthcare and co-leading work on the common European Data Space within the Digital Health Europe (DHE) CSA. From her early career as a hospital-based medical physicist and founding member of the Institute of Biomedical Technology (INBIT), she also brings into her work a broad health professional, biomedical technology and quality management experience and expertise.						



































 











Prof. Mark Lawler 



							Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Digital Health						



							Queens University Belfast / European Cancer Organisation						



							Mark is an internationally renowned scientist whose work has been recognised by numerous national and international awards.						



							Mark is an internationally renowned scientist whose work has been recognised by numerous national and international awards. He was architect of the European Cancer Patients Bill of Rights which received The 2018 European Health Award, a prestigious award for partnerships that yield real health impact in Europe.  Marks work on Covid-19 and its impact on cancer services and cancer patients has received international attention. He co-chairs E.C.Os Special Focussed Network on Covid-19 and cancer, which launched its 7-Point plan to Build Back Smarter from Covid. He co-leads E.C.Os pan European Time To Act Campaign to ensure that Covid-19 does not stop us from tackling cancer. This work recently received the prestigious Royal College of Physicians Excellence in Patient Care Award.						



































 











Dr. Niamh Lennox-Chhugani 



							Chief Executive						



							International Foundation for Integrated Care (IFIC)						



							Dr. Niamh Lennox has 30 years of experience in evidence-based transformation in healthcare internationally as a clinician, academic and consultant.						



							Dr Niamh Lennox-Chhugani is Chief Executive of the International Foundation for Integrated Care and has 30 years of experience in evidence-based transformation in healthcare internationally as a clinician, academic and consultant. She has worked with many NHS Trust leadership teams over the last 20 years to develop and deliver meaningful and impactful strategies. She promotes co-production as a way to engage staff and local communities in successful strategy and implementation success. As a subject matter expert on integrated care as part of wider healthcare reform, she has spoken at conferences, on panels, written papers, contributed as part of international teams to health system reviews. She has a PhD from Imperial College London in organisation change in healthcare.						



































 











Campbell MacLeod 



							Surgical Research Fellow						



							NHS Highland 						



							Campbell MacLeod is surgical trainee based in the North of Scotland.						



							Campbell MacLeod is surgical trainee based in the North of Scotland. He is currently undertaking a PhD with the University of Aberdeen researching colon capsule endoscopy. Campbell also works with the national ScotCap team to make colon capsule endoscopy available to patients in Scotland to improve waiting times and access to investigations. He has worked clinically across Scotland and has an interest in how to triage and prioritise patients for investigations.						



 





















 











David Magboul 



							Founder						



							LabToMarket						



							Late 2017, David founded LabToMarket to help startups and researchers across Europe launch their products in the market.						



							With a degree in Biology (University of Nottingham, UK, 2004), David has over 15years experience across the full scope of the health sector.He started as a Pharma Sales Rep at ITF-Farma, then an internship as InternationalBusiness Developer in Imbiosis, a Spanish Biotech, David later became MarketingManager for Spain & Portugal for Medical Imaging company Carestream in 2008. In2013 he moved to FUJIFILMs ultrasound company, SonoSite. Since 2014, hes beenworking as a strategy consultant for several industries.Late 2017, David founded LabToMarket to help startups and researchers acrossEurope launch their products in the market.						



































 











Dr. Rosana Magalhes 



							Clinical Research Assistant, Medical Writer, Rater/Psychologist in Clinical Studies						



							2CA-Braga (Clinical Academic Center  Braga) 						



							Rosana Magalhes is a rater (clinical psychologist) in pharmaceutical industry clinical trials at Centro Clnico Acadmico in Braga.						



							Rosana Magalhes has a PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Minho, with experience in the field of Neuropsychology. She is passionate about the human brain and its complex relationship with human behavior. Since 2017, she has been a rater (clinical psychologist) in pharmaceutical industry clinical trials at Centro Clnico Acadmico in Braga (Portugal). Her great interest in clinical research has lead her to dedicate much of her time to researcher-driven projects at this center, where she is also responsible for tasks as a medical writer and clinical research assistant. Her work is devoted to improve clinical research.						



































 











Dr. Jos Martinez-Usero 



							European Projects						



							FUNKA						



							Jos Usero has extensive experience as project coordinator of European projects and several major European studies. 						



							Jos Usero has extensive experience as project coordinator of European projects and several major European studies on the fields of eGovernment, eInclusion and AHA (Active and Healthy Ageing). Jose Usero has a PhD in Egov interoperability technologies and he is author of several books on ICT related topics and a wide range of scientific publications. From 2013, he is holding the position of Responsible for European Projects at FUNKA. He is also the coordinator of the H2020 Coordination Action supporting the EC in the management of the EIPonAHA and fully involved in many innovation and policy initiatives around digital transformation of health and care.						



































 











Dr. Henrique Martins 



							Associate Professor in Health Management, Leadership and Digital Health						



							University Beira Interior / University Institute of Lisbon						



							Henrique Martins is Associate Professor in Health Management, Leadership and Digital Health at University Beira Interior and ISCTE.						



							Henrique Martins, MD, PhD, MLaw, FIAHSI is Associate Professor in Health Management, Leadership and Digital Health at University Beira Interior and University Institute of Lisbon (ISCTE). He is the past co-chair of the eHealth Network and was president of SPMS, Portugals Digital Health Agency for about 7 years. He is now co-leading ISCTE-HEALTH, member of several advisory boards, and member of the Board of Directors of HL7 Europe Foundation. He provides independent consultancy in Digital Health to International Organisations and Projects.						



































 











Lyudmil Ninov 



							Senior Programme Officer						



							European Patients Forum						



							Lyudmil Ninov joined the EPF team in April 2017 and currently has the role of Senior Programme Officer.						



							Lyudmil Ninov joined the EPF team in April 2017 and currently has the role of Senior Programme Officer. At EPF he oversees project development, planning and costs monitoring for H2020 and IMIprojects: COMPAR-EU, DigitalHealthEurope, H2O, PERISCOPE and PERMIT. Lyudmil holds a Bachelor degree in European Studies from the Sofia University St. Kliment Ohridski in Bulgaria and a Master degree in European Studies from the University of Maastricht, the Netherlands. Prior to joining EPF, Lyudmil spent most of his professional time working in the healthcare sector for the International Diabetes Federations head office in Brussels, managing various diabetes-related international projects. In EPF he has several key topics of expertise such as: self-management, patient involvement & digital health.						



































 











Sara Riggare 



							Patient Researcher						



							Uppsala University						



							Sara Riggare (MSc, PhD cand) is a patient leader and patient researcher at Uppsala University, Sweden						



							Sara Riggare (MSc, PhD cand) is a patient leader and patient researcher at Uppsala University, Sweden. In her work and research, she combines her engineering training with her experiences from managing Parkinsons disease for over 35 years. Her research is focused on personal science, self-tracking, Quantified Self, and patient-led research.						



































 











Nick Schneider 



							Head of Division  New technologies and data use						



							German Federal Ministry of Health						



							Nick Schneider leads the division on new technologies and data use at the German Federal Ministry of Health.						



							Nick Schneider leads the division on new technologies and data use at the German Federal Ministry of Health and is a passionate advocate for the EHDS and trustworthy AI for the benefit of EU citizens. He was born and raised in Latin America and studied medicine in Heidelberg. After health advocacy and research activity in Brussels, the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) and the German Cancer Research Center, he joined the German Federal Ministry of Health, where he inter alia coordinated the negotiations to the EU General Data Protection Regulation and its implementation into health law on federal level.						



































 











Gzde Susuzlu Briggs 



							Project Coordinator						



							Data Saves Lives / European Patients						



							Gzde is project coordinator for #datasaveslives initiative and digital health and health data related Horizon and IMI projects at EPF.						



							Gzde worked as a Web and Online Service Manager for 6 years at an international organisation in Belgium, Brussels. Prior to that, she worked at the same organisation as a communications assistant and managed website and online service projects. Back to business since March 2019 as a project coordinator for #datasaveslives initiative and digital health and health data related Horizon and IMI projects at European Patients Forum.						



































 











Jon Switters 



							European Project Manager						



							FUNKA						



							Since joining FUNKA, Jon Switters has specialised in European research and innovation projects in the field of digital health and accessibility.						



							Jon has over 15 years of experience in project management starting off his career at Pricewaterhouse Coopers (Madrid) working as a business consultant on projects with the Spanish Ministry of Housing, Banco Santander and Telefnica. For the past 10 years, Jon has been working as an EU project manager, collaborating with Malaga City Council for 6 years on EU funded sustainable development projects within the city and region. Since joining FUNKA, he has specialised in European research and innovation projects in the field of digital health and accessibility, helping to promote a more inclusive society.						



































 











Mathieu Thbaud 



							Manager						



							REHABLAB4ALL						



							For the past three years, Mathieu Thbaud has been the Kerpape REHAB-LAB manager.						



							Mathieu Thbaud is an IT engineer in computer science, with 3 years of experience in a software company in France. He works in the Electronic Lab of Kerpape as a R&D engineer. He is currently involved in PREDICT4ALL as the research engineer responsible for the development of an adapted word prediction in augmentative and alternative communication systems, with previous experiences in assistive software development. For the past three years, he has also been the Kerpape REHAB-LAB manager.						



































 











Dr. Rainer Thiel 



							Head of ICT Innovation in Health & Director						



							empirica						



							Dr. Rainer Thiel is Head of ICT Innovation in Health and Director of  empirica.						



							Dr. Rainer Thiel is Head of ICT Innovation in Health and Director of empirica. He has an academic and applied sciences background in both policy studies/comparative political systems research and in socio-economic impact assessment with a focus on health systems and health technologies. He has been leading work packages on market research, deployment strategies and business modelling for a multitude of H2020 RIA on Artificial Intelligence in Health, with project budgets up to 15 Mill. For regulatory impact assessment studies commissioned by DG Sant and the European Medicines Agency, Dr. Thiel has managed and developed evaluation methodologies. A member of Health Technology Assessment International (HTAi), he has been publishing about validation and economic assessment frameworks for the application to innovative and disruptive health technologies and ICT Infostructures.						



































 











Danny van Roijen 



							Digital Health Director						



							COCIR						



							Danny Van Roijen is Digital Health Director at COCIR, the leading industry voice in Europe on digital health.						



							Danny van Roijen is Digital Health Director at COCIR, the leading industry voice in Europe on digital health representing the medical imaging, radiotherapy, electromedical and health IT industries. Coordinating the associations digital health activities Danny focuses on European policy making, covering topics such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, data protection, interoperability and mHealth. Danny is a member of the European Commissions eHealth Stakeholder Group as well as the Stakeholder Cybersecurity Certification Group. On behalf of COCIR, Danny is chairing the Healthcare working group within the International Association for Trusted Blockchain Application (INATBA).						



































 











Steven Vermeulen 



							Chief Information & Infrastructure Officer						



							EBRAINS						



							Steven is a seasoned executive with more than 25 years of experience in different sectors, including healthcare and telecoms.						



							Steven is a seasoned executive with more than 25 years of experience in different sectors. He worked in telecoms, space, media, advertising, logistics and healthcare. Throughout a career that started as a scientist and evolved into technical (software), management and even marketing and sales roles, the common thread has been introducing and applying new technologies in the market. Steven has taken leading roles in several internal start-ups in large companies and has done a MBO of a company in France. Recently he has been involved in applying his experience in digital transformation and data projects in several SMEs in Belgium. In EBRAINS he is responsible for the infrastructure and thus able to combine his 2 passions: science and technology.						



































 











Diane Whitehouse 



							Principal eHealth Policy Consultant						



							EHTEL						



							As EHTELs Principal eHealth Policy Consultant, Diane Whitehouse is involved in digitally health-related projects.						



							Diane Whitehouse is EHTELs Principal eHealth Policy Analyst. Through EHTEL, she is involved in digitally health-related projects, such as DigitalHealthEurope  which explored patient-centred care in detail, SCIROCCOExchange, and vCare. Among its wide-ranging interests in health data and digital, EHTEL now focuses on hybrid care (mixed face-to-face and virtual health and care appointments) and explores hospitalisation at home and care at home settings. Until February 2007, Diane was a Scientific Officer in the ICT for Health Unit of the European Commissions General Directorate Connect and worked previously on ageing and social inclusion.						



 





















 











Dr. Petra Wilson 



							Director						



							Health Connect Partners						



							Petra Wilson is co-founder and managing director of Health Connect Partners, a boutique consultancy on health policy.						



							Petra Wilson is co-founder and managing director of Health Connect Partners, a boutique consultancy which focusses primarily on helping clients understand the European health policy environment. Current projects being undertaken by Health Connect Partners include the review of cross-border patient mobility for the European Commission and supporting the development of a governance framework for the European Health Data Space. In addition, Petra also acts a senior advisor on health and life sciences at FTI Consulting and is engaged as EU Programme Director for the Personal Connected Health Alliance (a HIMSS innovation company).						



































 











Dr. Oscar  Zanutto 



							Senior Project Manager						



							FABER						



							Dr. Oscar  Zanutto (1972) is a psychologist of work and organizations. He has been working in ISRAA since 2000, nowadays coordinating FABER.						



							Dr. Oscar Zanutto (1972) is a psychologist of work and organizations. He has been working in ISRAA since 2000, nowadays coordinating FABER, an Innovation Hub dedicated to EU-Projects on social innovation. He is the Senior Project Manager in several Italian national projects for the elderly funded by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. His skills are European projects management, organizational service design of care delivery for seniors. He also works as a consultant for social innovation projects for care provider organizations in the adoption of ICT solutions into new business care models. He is also a trainer in University Masters programmes for psychologists managed by Padua University. He is the author of La leadership in RSA, and La Bussiness Intelligence in RSA Maggioli Editore (2013).						



































 











Dr. Oliver Zobell 



							Programme Manager						



							Project Management Jlich						



							Since 2019, Oliver is partaking in EU project DigitalHealthEurope, focusing mainly on re-using health data for research.						



							After receiving his PhD in molecular biology from the University of Cologne, Oliver worked in academic research for several years. He then moved to the European Commission, to support EU politics in the area of bioanalytics standardisation. Since 2015, he is working at the Project Management Jlich, a leading German research funding agency within the Research Centre Jlich. He has managed publicly funded research programs on infectious diseases and microbiological resources, with particular focus on international cooperation. Since 2019, Oliver is partaking in EU project DigitalHealthEurope, focusing mainly on re-using health data for research.						

















































Organisation Team 
























 











Carola Schulz 



							Research Consultant						



							empirica						
































 











Jessica Paul 



							Research Consultant						



							empirica						
































 











Anett Ruszanov 



							Research Consultant						



							DHE						
































 











Tino Marti 



							eHealth Project Officer						



							EHTEL						
































 











Diane Whitehouse 



							Principal eHealth Policy Consultant						



							EHTEL						



 





















 











Chrysoula Mitta 



							Associate Director						



							The Lisbon Council						
































 











Charlotte Fabricius 



							Research Consultant						



							empirica						
































 











Alexander Cuartas-Acosta 



							European Projects Assistant						



							empirica						
































 











Daniel Schmidtmann 



							Research Consultant						



							empirica						
































 











Ingrid Weindorfer 



							European Projects Assistant						



							empirica						
































 











Anna Oleneva 



							European Projects Assistant						



							empirica						



 





















 











Francisca Leite 



							European Projects Assistant						



							empirica						
































 











Dr. Veli Stroetmann 



							Director						



							empirica						



 





















 











Strahil Birov 



							Research Consultant						



							empirica						














































Documents 


























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Outcomes 











The 12 sessions over the 3 days of the DHE Summit provided a platform for very rich expert discussions around on-the-ground digital transformation experiences, health data sharing governance models, federated systems, citizen empowerment, European Data Spaces and many other topics.Find out what happened each day in a nutshell:Day 1On Day 1 speakers reflected on what fundamental conditions are necessary for digital health and care to flourish. DHE twinning representatives reported on their success stories, how they managed to adopt innovative solutions, fostered co-creation, co-design with patients and overcame standardised data collection challenges across Europe. DHE partner networks took stock of horizontal and vertical challenges of scaling-up, knowledge sharing and capacity building in a sustainable way, as well as the skills and capacities necessary to overcome the challenges incurred.Day 2On Day 2 panellists discussed about patient-centred and data-driven health and care. Useful hints, ideas and advice were shared on how to empower and engage with citizens. Participants got an insight into citizens willingness to share their health data. We heard about data activism movement and how to foster it. Finally, arguments were presented why and how federated datasets can contribute to more accurate AI algorithms and machine learning.Day 3Day 3s principal scope was debates around the European Health Data Space (EHDS). The audience received an update onthe status of the EHDS from the European Commission, furthermore a future outlook concerning EU and Member States collaboration in the field of health and how Europe can leverage the experience from the COVID crisis. 























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent



















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 






























Citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across borders 














What it isThis multi-stakeholder community focuses on understanding whichgood practicesare used in each country that are related withcitizens secure access to and sharing of health data, and thus facilitate the adoption of aEuropean electronic health record exchange format.More specifically, the activities performed by the community have involved:Establishing afunctional collaboration platformon key aspects of the first DTHC priority;Bringing togetherEuropean, national, and regional initiatives, relevant projects and experts to widen citizens access to data relevant to their health and increase their awareness about data sharing through empowerment tools and person-centred solutions. 











Outputs 

























 











							The White Paper includes important conclusions which will help the project to deliver recommendations on how to improve digital health literacy, promote citizens access to their health data and enhance citizen and patient commitment towards health data sharing.						



 
































 











							The paper collects the findings that the project team have gathered through desk research, expert interviews and wide consultations around existing, novel data sharing governance models, level of trust in and awareness about health data sharing. The paper offers key conclusions for the DHE round tables on person-centred solutions for data sharing mechanisms and data control for citizens.						



 




































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent





















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 






























Better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care 














What it isThebetter data multi-stakeholder engagement mission is to identify what is needed and mobilise stakeholders to act in order to make health and care data, collected in hospitals, general practices and by patients themselves, more widely available for purposes of analysis and further research with appropriate data protection safeguards.Theultimate aimsare to improve the quality and resilience of healthcare systems around Europe, help public health services to focus more on prevention and deliver better, more efficient, cost-effective and accessible services and accelerate research.In order to develop the best possible health data networksfrom which researchers and healthcare organisations can discover how to advance the quality and safety of care, the DHE multi-stakeholder engagements have identified the principal challenges and worked on recommendations on how to overcome them. These challenges were: data protection, data quality improvement, tackling data fragmentation through accelerated adoption of interoperability standards and the scalability challenges posed by personalised medicine. 











Outputs 

























 











							The roadmap outlines the steps and conditions needed to reach the European target of at least 1 million sequenced genomes collected across Member States to advance the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of communicable, non-communicable and rare diseases. 						



 
































 











							The report collects the views of citizens and patients on the EHDS, their perception of the benefits of using health data on a European scale, and their considerations of important principles and values that should underpin the European Health Data Space. 						



 
































 











							Digital Health Standards is a joint communication effort between the DigitalHealthEurope project, empirica and The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data to grow awareness about the importance of health ICT standards.						



 
































 











							DigitalHealthEurope presents 32 actionable recommendations addressing three significant transition challenges for the EHDS:
(1) From privacy protection to citizen protection. (2) From citizen as data subject to citizen as key change agent in the health data ecosystem. (3) From policy and regulatory frameworks to engagement, adoption and implementation.						



 
































 











							Industrys vision for the future EHDS including the commitments they would be willing to make in order to support the implementation of high priority use cases such as accelerated drug and device development, AI and personalised medicine genomics.						



 
































 











							Consolidates knowledge and lessons learned from mapping the evolving European and national landscapes of health data sharing for care and for research. The White Paper has been followed by a series of stakeholder consultations about the European Health Data Space (EHDS): industry and citizens.						



 




































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent





















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 






























Digital tools for citizen empowerment and for person-centred care with a particular focus on the interaction between citizens and healthcare providers 














What it isThecitizen empowerment multi-stakeholder community targets digital solutionsthat build the relationship and strengthen cooperation betweencitizens, patients, and healthcare providers.The activities aim at a holistic, person-centred, equitable, quality care model enabled by digital tools regardless of gender, age or ethnic origin. The identified and validated solutions are also applicable to fields such as personalised medicine and omics. Ultimately, the community has also developed an empowerment roadmap for healthcare providers and larger scale healthcare ecosystems so that they can use digital solutions to provide better care for patients. 











Outputs 

























 











							The report collects the views of citizens and patients on the EHDS, their perception of the benefits of using health data on a European scale, and their considerations of important principles and values that should underpin the European Health Data Space. 						



 
































 











							The catalogue of 65 digital solutions with high potential of scalability and replicability have been collected according to the three priorities of the Digital Transformation of Health and Care (DTHC): (i) citizens secure access, (ii) better data and (iii) citizen empowerment. Solutions under this priority has constituted the basis for the activities carried out by the citizen empowerment community.						



 
































 











							The roadmap outlines the components of empowerment particularly at organisational level to improve the interaction between patients and healthcare professionals and actors of the healthcare system including authorities and the industry whilst increasing trust and confidence and digital tools. The White Paper elaborates on the issues described in the roadmap.						



 
































 











 




































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent





















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 






























DigitalHealthEuropeSupport to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single MarketDigital Solutions for Health and Care Management in Times of CoronavirusA catalogue of mature telehealth solutions which enable remote/tele-monitoring, ePrescribing and other remotely managed services during the COVID-19 pandemic. Better Implementation of Data Infrastructures and Secondary Uses of Health DataA DigitalHealthEurope White Paper explores the evolving European and national landscapes of health data-sharing for care and for researchDigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solutions supporting the digital transformation of health and careBrowse the database of 65 mature digital solutions resulting from EU-funded projects and initiatives that address challenges related to key policy priorities.Scaling up of Digitally-enabled Health and Care Solutions via TwinningsFind out more about the ongoing DigitalHealthEurope Twinnings awarded funding as a result of the DHE Calls for Twinnings. 


 Previous slide


 Next slide















DigitalHealthEurope recommendations on the European Health Data Space 







 







Supporting responsible health data sharing and use through governance, policy and practiceAfter almost two years of intense consultations with nearly 140 stakeholders and experts from diverse areas, DigitalHealthEurope has developed proposals for regulatory action, policy and strategy, as well as further actions of support to enable responsible health data sharing and use. These recommendations are directed towards the envisioned European Health Data Space (EHDS), which the European Commission will define in a specific legal framework until the end of 2021. Aim of the EHDS is to facilitate the sharing and uses of Real World Health Data within and especially beyond healthcare.In this context, DigitalHealthEurope presents 32 actionable recommendations addressing three significant transition challenges for the EHDS:From privacy protection to citizen protection.From citizen as data subject to citizen as key change agent in the health data ecosystem.From policy and regulatory frameworks to engagement, adoption and implementation. 











							49						















Empowering citizens and building a healthier society through digital health 











DigitalHealthEurope will providecomprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The projects approach involves a number of actions that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priorities for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), as outlined in the European Commissions 2018on the topic. The priorities concern:

citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across borders
better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care
digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care.

To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offers two forms of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020.
Support to large scale deployment of digital solutions for person-centred integrated care
DigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tools will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instruments and financing sources. The selected initiatives will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instruments such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisations will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklists and documented successful approaches. These results will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lessons learned.
Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder communities
DigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These communities directly address the three priorities.Each of the communities will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated experts and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcomes such as white papers, guidelines and policy recommendations.
DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The results will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended actions. 


























Latest News 





























 



							There are many digitally enabled health and care solutions and practices developed as part of Europe research & innovation projects, national funding programmes, private undertakings, competitions, etc., but it is oftentimes difficult to get						

































 



							Dementia and moderate cognitive impairment are some of the most common challenges faced by older citizens. Kwido Mementia has become a result of the twinning cooperation between Ideable Solutions, Spain (twinning originator) and the						

































 



							Video explaining the adoption of the Social-Health Folder twinning aimed at digitalisation of healthcare administration and management.						

































 



							During the course of its action, the Digital Health Europe (DHE) project has produced numerous valuable outputs, including white papers and recommendations, the DHE forum, collection of useful resources for people working in the						












































Tweets 



  























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent


















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope provides comprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The projects approach involves a number of actions that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priorities for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), as outlined in theon the topic. The priorities concern:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. 












 












To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offers two forms of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020.Support to large scale deployment of digital solutions for person-centred integrated careDigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tools will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instruments and financing sources. The selected initiatives will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instruments such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisations will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklists and documented successful approaches. These results will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lessons learned.Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder communitiesDigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These communities directly address the three priorities.Each of the communities will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated experts and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcomes such as white papers, guidelines and policy recommendations.DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The results will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended action 




























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
 
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Who we are 



TheDigitalHealthEurope consortium comprises 17 partners from 10 European countries. 




















empirica Communication and Technology Research is a private research and consultancy company based in Bonn, Germany. empirica boasts a broad understanding of political, strategic, clinical, business and socio-economic questions raised by health system change and eHealth innovation. Its long-standing expertise lies in the analysis of new technology opportunities against user requirements and business models. empirica has a long track record of managing large-scale European projects for both private and public clients.As Coordinator of DigitalHealthEurope, empirica is responsible for all project management tasks and will closely support partners leading dissemination activities. empirica will lead activities related to the development of the twinning scheme for digital solutions for person-centred integrated care, including managing the call for twinning process and the awarding of the twinning contracts. empirica is also tasked with identifying and analysing the key building blocks for scaling up deployment across Europe and will be responsible for transposing project outputs into a strategic vision of EU coordination and support on digital transformation beyond 2020.









AGE Platform Europe (AGE) is a European network of 110 organisations of and for people aged 50+, established as an international not-for-profit organisation under the Belgian Law since 2001. AGE addresses a wide range of policy areas that have an impact on older and retired people, raising awareness of the issues that concern them most and lending them a voice in EU policy debates. Furthermore, AGE is active in some key European initiatives such as: the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing; the Financial Services Users Group, and several EU-wide networks such as the Covenant on Demographic Change and the European Public Health Alliance.Within DigitalHealthEurope, AGE will contribute to the analysis of person-centred integrated care initiatives, the twinning scheme, as well as assist with designing the framework for capacity and capability building in a way that addresses the needs of older people and their informal carers. AGE will also support the development of the collaboration platform on citizens access to their data.









Founded in 1989, the Central European Initiative (CEI) is a regional intergovernmental forum committed to supporting European integration through cooperation. The CEI has become a recognised promoter of EU/non-EU-country partnership. Its membership currently counts seventeen countries of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe who are differently positioned vis--vis the EU. Ten of them are EU Member States: Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. Another four are EU membership candidates: Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. The remaining ones are made up by a potential candidate, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and three countries involved in the European Neighbourhood Policy: Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine. The CEI Executive Secretariat will support DigitalHealthEurope through its expertise in the analysis of the EU strategies on health and social care and their implementation. Furthermore, it will employ its long-standing experience in the promotion of regional cooperation, reaching out to its established networks in Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe.









Since its foundation in 2012, the Alliance has brought together European healthcare experts and patient advocates involved with major chronic diseases, shaping the personalised health policy agenda. The mission of the Alliance is to improve healthcare by accelerating the development, delivery and uptake of personalised medicine and diagnostics, through consensus. Its diverse membership provides extensive scientific, clinical, care and training expertise in personalised medicine and diagnostics, across patient groups, academia, health professionals, and industry. Relevant departments of the European Commission have observer status.Within DigitalHealthEurope, the Alliance will contribute to the development of the collaborative platform for health data infrastructure. It will focus on coordination and support to advance personalised medicine and, by means of a survey, assess current proposed standards such as the technical frameworks developed by the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. EAPM will also address how to stimulate the demand for combining, sharing and analysing population-scale health data.









ECHAlliance represents a community of 600+ member organisations and 16,500+ experts: driving sustainable change and innovative disruption in the delivery of health and social care. It organises ecosystem meetings (100+ a year), international events, and unites stakeholders under the online platform called Connector. Active in 50+ regions/countries (in Europe as well as Canada, China, and the USA), the ECHAlliance members develop innovative solutions around mobile Health, chronic diseases, active & healthy ageing, Internet of Things, wearables, personalised medicine, genomics, Big Data, virtual reality, and artificial intelligence.As part of DigitalHealthEurope, ECHAlliance will conduct a survey to capture the vision held by both demand side actors (e.g., policy-makers, healthcare providers, patients/citizens, and insurers) and supply side actors (e.g., large companies, start-ups and SMEs, researchers), on the digital transformation of health and care priorities. ECHAlliance will also oversee the process of drafting recommendations on citizen-controlled data governance and data donation.









Founded as a non-profit trade association in 1959, COCIR represents the Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT industry in Europe. As the EU leading industry voice on Digital Health, COCIR is committed to supporting its members and communicating with its partners in Europe and beyond on issues which affect the medical technology sector and the health of EU citizens. COCIR also works with various organisations in promoting harmonised international standards and fair regulatory control that respect the quality and effectiveness of medical devices and healthcare IT systems without compromising the safety of patients and users. COCIRs key objectives include the active support of free worldwide trade of medical devices and maintaining the competitiveness of the European health sector. As part of DigitalHealthEurope, COCIR will help to communicate the vision espoused by the suppliers of solutions for the digital transformation of health and care. Furthermore, it will facilitate insights from industry into developing patient empowerment solutions.









EHTEL is the leading European forum for decision-makers and implementers in Europe, engaged in supporting the transformation of the health and care practice in Europe through digitalisation. The association brings together under one roof a wide range of constituencies crucial for the improvement of health and social care with health IT. EHTEL provides a platform for information, representation, networking, and co-operation to its 50+ corporate members. EHTEL joined the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing at its launch in 2012. It has been part of the Blueprint / Digital Transformation of Health and Care Partners since July 2016.As part of DigitalHealthEurope, EHTEL will oversee and lead activities related to communication, dissemination, and stakeholder engagement. It will further contribute to activities related to setting up the call for twinning and producing the final twinning report.









EuroRec is an independent not-for-profit organisation, promoting the use of high quality Electronic Health Record systems (EHRs) in Europe. EuroRec undertakes activities that support the effective and meaningful use of high quality and interoperable applications by healthcare professionals, meeting well-specified, functional, content-related, interoperability and governance requirements. As the most experienced European certification body, one of its main missions is to support EHR system conformity assessment and quality labelling by defining relevant functional and non-functional criteria.In the context of DigitalHealthEurope, EuroRec is responsible for the collaboration platform on better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care, focusing on aggregated demand for European eHealth and health data infrastructures and services. It will work with many different types of stakeholders to identify business drivers and cases that can scale up the demand for infrastructures, services and data itself, at a European level.









Founded in 2003, the European Patients Forum (EPF) is an umbrella organisation that works with patients groups in public health and health advocacy across Europe. Members represent specific chronic disease groups at EU level or are national coalitions of patients. The EPF advocates for access to high quality, patient-centred, equitablehealthand social care for all patients with chronic and/or lifelong conditions in the EU. It ensures that the patients community drives policies and programmes that affect patients livesso as tobring about changes empowering patients to be equal citizens in the EU.WithinDigitalHealthEuropeEPF is responsible for the collaboration platform on digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care, conducting research and evaluations on the impact of these kinds of solutions. EPF will also contribute to tasks related to citizen and healthcare provider interaction and the collaboration platform on better data to advance research, disease prevention, and personalised health and care.









Founded in 2001, ERRIN is a Brussels-based platform of research and innovation organisations and stakeholders in regions. ERRIN aims to strengthen regional Research and Innovation capacities by exchanging information, sharing best practices, supporting European project development, policy shaping and profile raising by working in partnership. ERRIN helps regions get their voice heard in Brussels. ERRIN members are place-based, not-for-profit organisations or their representative offices in the Belgian capital. Through its 12 thematic Working Groups and the policy group, ERRIN facilitates contacts between regional offices and regions so that they can enhance their knowledge of European Research and Innovation policy and developstrategicEuropean projects to strengthen regional competitiveness.As part of theDigitalHealthEuropeconsortium, ERRIN is responsible for widening and sustaining stakeholder engagement. ERRIN will also lend its support to activities related to digital solutions for person-centred integrated care, establishing the twinning marketplace scheme and patient empowerment.









ForschungszentrumJlich(FZJ) is one of the largest interdisciplinary research centres in Europe. Based inJlich, Germany, it is also a leading research funding agency in the country, managing Research & Development and Innovation funds totalling more than 1,6 billion , on behalf of various federal and state ministries The programmes managed cover biomedical areas such as bioinformatics, omics-technologies, systems biology and the internationalisation of medical informatics. FZJ also hosts several Horizon 2020 national contact points, most importantly for the Life Sciences thematic priorities of the programme.WithinDigitalHealthEurope, FZJ will support the collaboration platform on better data infrastructures. It will help to identify the most relevant ongoing initiatives and key stakeholders. Additionally, with support from experts, it will identify and analyse the main challenges, technical issues, ways to link different data sources, and solutions to address data interoperability, reusability, and knowledge extraction. The research will also determine lessons learnt, success factors, and good practice examples.









FUNKA is a market-leading SME in the field of accessibility and enjoys a close relationship with end-user organisations. The focus of FUNKAs work goes in four distinct directions: eGovernment, eHealth, eLearning, andeInclusion. The companys business concept is to offer expert services regarding ICT for a better quality of life, and to produce user-friendly, efficient, and accessible online solutions. From offices located in Stockholm, Sweden; Oslo, Norway; and Madrid, Spain, FUNKA experts contribute to the work of the national standardisation bodies in the threecountries, andsupport international and European standardisation efforts.WithinDigitalHealthEurope, FUNKA will analyse and identify person-centred integrated care initiatives and the available funding support sources. FUNKA will also support tasks pursuing the scaling-up of deployment in Europe, in particular, theanalysis and identification of building blocks and the development of a framework for capacity and capability building.









IFIC is a not-for-profit network incorporated as a foundation in the Netherlands. IFICs mission is to cross organisational and professional boundariesin order tobring people together to advance the science, knowledge and adoption of integrated care in policy and practice. IFIC seeks to achieve this through the development and exchange of ideas among academics, researchers, managers, clinicians,policy-makersand people who use services, alongside theircarersand families throughout the world. A key focus of IFIC is to act as a research hub in partnership with its members and external academic centres internationally.In the context ofDigitalHealthEurope, IFIC will focus on scaling up the deployment of solutions for the Digital Transformation of Health and Care. It will also provide input into identifying and examining the integrated care evidence offered by key stakeholders with tailored advice and support.









The Lisbon Council for Economic Competitiveness and Social Renewal was founded in 2003 as a non-profit association, under Belgian law. It was set up to accompany the Lisbon Agenda, Europes original growth and jobs programme. Over time, it has developed a pronounced focus on innovation in the public sector, digital technologies, human capitaland skills, couched in the broader context of growth and jobs.The Lisbon Council has a very active and dedicated community of supporters throughout Europe, numbering in the thousands. The Lisbon Councils involvement inDigitalHealthEuropewill reflect this capacity, where it is responsible for external communication,eventsand media campaigns. Furthermore, the Council will participate actively in further developing and joining up the three collaboration platforms by linking them to other relevant portals.









Open Evidence offers research-based evidence and practical support for the public and private sectors, delivering theory-based and empirically robust practical insights for innovative and inclusive policies and strategies. Its domains of intervention are Information Society, Health and Consumer, and Research and Innovation policy.OpenEvidencespecialises in policy studies and research and has participated in preparing policy recommendations and promoting stakeholder engagement at an EU level. Its position enables it to serve as a bridge between academia andpolicy-making. Open Evidences expertise also includes the development of tools for online engagement and data-driven monitoring and analysis of policy interventions. One example is the Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP) tool.









The RSCN provides a collaborative approach to the sharing and transfer of best practices in the development and scaling-up of health and care strategies, policies, and service delivery models. The RSCN is recognised by the European Commission as the principal forum representing all European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing Reference Sites. The networks mission is to optimise the sharing of a strong, sustainable health and care system for all, while respecting the different competences and responsibilities in the health and care services of the Member States and Regions.As part of theDigitalHealthEuropeconsortium, the RSCN will closely support tasks related to identifying solutions for person-centred integrated care and the twinning marketplace scheme. It will also contribute to the development of the collaboration platforms on citizens access to health data and on digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care.









SPMS represents the Shared Services of the Portuguese Ministry of Health and acts as the Ministrys central purchasing and IT authority. Its aim is to provide shared services to organisations operatingin the area ofhealth, in order to centralise, optimise and rationalise the procurement of goods and services in the Portuguese national health system. SPMS also promotes the definition and use of standards, methodologies and requirements that guarantee the interoperability and interconnection of health information systems and cross-sectional information systems of the public administration.In the context ofDigitalHealthEurope, SPMS is responsible for the development of the collaborative platform on citizens secure access to and management of their health data, and it will conduct a review of the solutions and systems currently in place. This review will support elaborating guidelines for citizen-controlled data governance and data donation. Furthermore, SPMS will analyse evidence from European projects on solutions for patient empowerment and citizen / healthcare practitioner interactions, with a view to scaling up their support.


























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 

























Events 



















No more results 



















						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent





















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinnings 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly supports thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solutions in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings works and what can and has already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. 




 

























What are Twinnings? 











Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practices from one region to another. The approach has been successfully tested in a number of EU projects and studies, including the.The region that offers the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activities include the ventures needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meetings or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fees for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solutions by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solutions with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fees for professional services not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contracts with agreed activities and deliverables; regular reporting 
























Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that supports the Digital Single Markets three priorities for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunities  between more than 90 organisations  will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE has organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. 



 
























Twinning Types 











Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It has different conditions for its budget, deployment timeframe, and the experts required.The five types range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities: they can be authorities that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other regions in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discuss a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and its transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopters (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopters is expected to be very similar. Well-established solutions are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the contents of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authorities that wish to implement aspects of an originators innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, as well as the reasons why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities with well established relations with other authorities in Europe (e.g. through memorandums of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aims to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originators infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). 



 



Examples of types of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February  May 2020)excludes Adaptation as a potential Twinning type. 
























Twinning Success Stories 











The concept of twinnings has already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success stories from regions around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. 












Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning as part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning was for Zagreb to learn about theand implement elements of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced regions in order to find digital solutions related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experiences of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategies in place. Andalusias more than 20 years of experience in eHealth systems development and its elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that supports the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administrations thanks, among other things, to its cutting-edge services such as the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshops with primary care physicians and ICT service providers in order to find the best ways to implement the desired elements in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care providers and health care workers.Healthcare services for complex patients have been improvedbased on examples from Andalusia health services with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding results was thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service fosters collaboration between cure and care sectors and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial savings for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of modules which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module was developed based on the twinning results  Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred services couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indications that some solutions could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solutions is to showcase the benefits of the solutions in small-scale pilots and communicate well on different levels to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy.









A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th  13th January 2017), as part of the 2016. Both regions are recognised as 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 years to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia was developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedures were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform has been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and its design has involved professionals from the University. Among its users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the users path in the services was analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demands of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipalities that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic areas of Scotland.Among the services available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, as well as the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspects to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 weeks with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform was offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform was not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 times more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gaps to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform managers commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategies developed in collaboration with voluntary associations and the third sector. Among the challenges for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate services and other services available in the community; stability in work teams due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit was to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project was presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resources into a single repository to provide a unique access to the users history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendations for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting users about their needs, expectations and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the managers and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered users and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of its design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia.









The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopters took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning was to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other regions and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristics and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective was to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adults and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it has been used in 15 different European countries adapted to the different languages, cultures and the legal system. Due to its success it is available today in 23 countries and 17 languages with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or regions across Europe and 885 patients have been enrolled in the twinning. The results show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patients compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategies is suggested. Moreover, results show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include questions that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90.









Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partners were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and examples of how becoming involved in collaborative activities might generate results to exploit at local levels (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement has been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional clusters has been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor has been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that has been providing further elements to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 projects of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania as AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania has been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aims to develop an inter-professional care models (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patients affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and uses clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by users through the network of local health agencies and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania has been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subjects with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that has been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patients with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic properties of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patients with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that supports rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial videos and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania has been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflows in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania as OriginatorCampania has been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided as a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patients at home, as if the patient was still in the hospital. The data collected at the patients home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feeds the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience has been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issues (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practices that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative ties with EU regions through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenues for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystems brings the added value of supporting regions to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenges that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building blocks emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision.



























Twinning Marketplace 














Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offers an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender.

The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance 














Twinning Results 











The results of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























DigitalHealthEurope Twinning Results 











As part of the DigitalHealthEurope Twinning Scheme, two Calls for Twinnings have been successfully organised in 2019 and 2020 respectively. The first call was open between 14 June and 7 August, 2019. A second call was launched on 26 February and closed on 22 May 2020. As a result of the two calls, 25 twinning applications were awarded funding.
Participation in the Twinning Scheme was open to regional government bodies and health and care providers, as well as organisations legally affiliated with them. Interested parties had the opportunity to partner up as adopters and originators of innovative solutions. Based on the complexity of envisioned twinning activities, submissions were divided into the following types:

Full adoption (10 winning tenders)
Partial adoption (9 winning tenders)
Knowledge exchange and training (6 winning tenders)

Twinning implementation has been ongoing since September 2019. Of the winning tenders, 9 involve more than one adopter. Most tenders are focused on digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care. In total, 76 organisations from 20 countries became involved in the adoption and transfer of innovative solutions between European regions through the DHE Twinning scheme. 



































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinnings 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly supports thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solutions in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings works and what can and has already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. 




 

























What are Twinnings? 











Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practices from one region to another. The approach has been successfully tested in a number of EU projects and studies, including the.The region that offers the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activities include the ventures needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meetings or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fees for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solutions by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solutions with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fees for professional services not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contracts with agreed activities and deliverables; regular reporting 
























Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that supports the Digital Single Markets three priorities for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunities  between more than 90 organisations  will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE has organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. 



 
























Twinning Types 











Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It has different conditions for its budget, deployment timeframe, and the experts required.The five types range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities: they can be authorities that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other regions in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discuss a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and its transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopters (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopters is expected to be very similar. Well-established solutions are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the contents of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authorities that wish to implement aspects of an originators innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, as well as the reasons why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities with well established relations with other authorities in Europe (e.g. through memorandums of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aims to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originators infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). 



 



Examples of types of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February  May 2020)excludes Adaptation as a potential Twinning type. 
























Twinning Success Stories 











The concept of twinnings has already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success stories from regions around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. 












Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning as part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning was for Zagreb to learn about theand implement elements of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced regions in order to find digital solutions related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experiences of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategies in place. Andalusias more than 20 years of experience in eHealth systems development and its elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that supports the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administrations thanks, among other things, to its cutting-edge services such as the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshops with primary care physicians and ICT service providers in order to find the best ways to implement the desired elements in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care providers and health care workers.Healthcare services for complex patients have been improvedbased on examples from Andalusia health services with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding results was thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service fosters collaboration between cure and care sectors and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial savings for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of modules which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module was developed based on the twinning results  Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred services couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indications that some solutions could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solutions is to showcase the benefits of the solutions in small-scale pilots and communicate well on different levels to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy.









A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th  13th January 2017), as part of the 2016. Both regions are recognised as 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 years to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia was developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedures were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform has been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and its design has involved professionals from the University. Among its users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the users path in the services was analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demands of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipalities that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic areas of Scotland.Among the services available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, as well as the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspects to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 weeks with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform was offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform was not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 times more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gaps to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform managers commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategies developed in collaboration with voluntary associations and the third sector. Among the challenges for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate services and other services available in the community; stability in work teams due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit was to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project was presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resources into a single repository to provide a unique access to the users history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendations for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting users about their needs, expectations and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the managers and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered users and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of its design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia.









The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopters took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning was to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other regions and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristics and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective was to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adults and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it has been used in 15 different European countries adapted to the different languages, cultures and the legal system. Due to its success it is available today in 23 countries and 17 languages with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or regions across Europe and 885 patients have been enrolled in the twinning. The results show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patients compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategies is suggested. Moreover, results show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include questions that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90.









Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partners were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and examples of how becoming involved in collaborative activities might generate results to exploit at local levels (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement has been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional clusters has been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor has been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that has been providing further elements to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 projects of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania as AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania has been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aims to develop an inter-professional care models (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patients affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and uses clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by users through the network of local health agencies and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania has been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subjects with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that has been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patients with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic properties of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patients with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that supports rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial videos and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania has been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflows in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania as OriginatorCampania has been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided as a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patients at home, as if the patient was still in the hospital. The data collected at the patients home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feeds the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience has been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issues (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practices that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative ties with EU regions through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenues for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystems brings the added value of supporting regions to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenges that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building blocks emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision.



























Twinning Marketplace 














Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offers an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender.

The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance 














Twinning Results 











The results of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinnings 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly supports thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solutions in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings works and what can and has already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. 




 

























What are Twinnings? 











Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practices from one region to another. The approach has been successfully tested in a number of EU projects and studies, including the.The region that offers the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activities include the ventures needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meetings or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fees for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solutions by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solutions with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fees for professional services not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contracts with agreed activities and deliverables; regular reporting 
























Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that supports the Digital Single Markets three priorities for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunities  between more than 90 organisations  will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE has organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. 



 
























Twinning Types 











Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It has different conditions for its budget, deployment timeframe, and the experts required.The five types range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities: they can be authorities that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other regions in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discuss a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and its transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopters (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopters is expected to be very similar. Well-established solutions are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the contents of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authorities that wish to implement aspects of an originators innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, as well as the reasons why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities with well established relations with other authorities in Europe (e.g. through memorandums of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aims to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originators infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). 



 



Examples of types of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February  May 2020)excludes Adaptation as a potential Twinning type. 
























Twinning Success Stories 











The concept of twinnings has already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success stories from regions around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. 












Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning as part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning was for Zagreb to learn about theand implement elements of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced regions in order to find digital solutions related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experiences of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategies in place. Andalusias more than 20 years of experience in eHealth systems development and its elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that supports the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administrations thanks, among other things, to its cutting-edge services such as the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshops with primary care physicians and ICT service providers in order to find the best ways to implement the desired elements in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care providers and health care workers.Healthcare services for complex patients have been improvedbased on examples from Andalusia health services with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding results was thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service fosters collaboration between cure and care sectors and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial savings for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of modules which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module was developed based on the twinning results  Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred services couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indications that some solutions could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solutions is to showcase the benefits of the solutions in small-scale pilots and communicate well on different levels to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy.









A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th  13th January 2017), as part of the 2016. Both regions are recognised as 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 years to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia was developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedures were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform has been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and its design has involved professionals from the University. Among its users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the users path in the services was analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demands of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipalities that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic areas of Scotland.Among the services available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, as well as the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspects to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 weeks with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform was offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform was not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 times more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gaps to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform managers commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategies developed in collaboration with voluntary associations and the third sector. Among the challenges for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate services and other services available in the community; stability in work teams due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit was to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project was presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resources into a single repository to provide a unique access to the users history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendations for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting users about their needs, expectations and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the managers and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered users and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of its design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia.









The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopters took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning was to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other regions and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristics and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective was to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adults and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it has been used in 15 different European countries adapted to the different languages, cultures and the legal system. Due to its success it is available today in 23 countries and 17 languages with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or regions across Europe and 885 patients have been enrolled in the twinning. The results show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patients compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategies is suggested. Moreover, results show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include questions that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90.









Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partners were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and examples of how becoming involved in collaborative activities might generate results to exploit at local levels (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement has been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional clusters has been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor has been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that has been providing further elements to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 projects of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania as AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania has been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aims to develop an inter-professional care models (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patients affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and uses clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by users through the network of local health agencies and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania has been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subjects with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that has been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patients with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic properties of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patients with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that supports rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial videos and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania has been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflows in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania as OriginatorCampania has been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided as a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patients at home, as if the patient was still in the hospital. The data collected at the patients home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feeds the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience has been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issues (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practices that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative ties with EU regions through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenues for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystems brings the added value of supporting regions to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenges that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building blocks emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision.



























Twinning Marketplace 














Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offers an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender.

The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance 














Twinning Results 











The results of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinnings 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly supports thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solutions in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings works and what can and has already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. 




 

























What are Twinnings? 











Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practices from one region to another. The approach has been successfully tested in a number of EU projects and studies, including the.The region that offers the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activities include the ventures needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meetings or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fees for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solutions by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solutions with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fees for professional services not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contracts with agreed activities and deliverables; regular reporting 
























Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that supports the Digital Single Markets three priorities for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunities  between more than 90 organisations  will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE has organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. 



 
























Twinning Types 











Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It has different conditions for its budget, deployment timeframe, and the experts required.The five types range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities: they can be authorities that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other regions in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discuss a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and its transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopters (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopters is expected to be very similar. Well-established solutions are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the contents of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authorities that wish to implement aspects of an originators innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, as well as the reasons why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities with well established relations with other authorities in Europe (e.g. through memorandums of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aims to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originators infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). 



 



Examples of types of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February  May 2020)excludes Adaptation as a potential Twinning type. 
























Twinning Success Stories 











The concept of twinnings has already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success stories from regions around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. 












Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning as part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning was for Zagreb to learn about theand implement elements of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced regions in order to find digital solutions related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experiences of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategies in place. Andalusias more than 20 years of experience in eHealth systems development and its elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that supports the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administrations thanks, among other things, to its cutting-edge services such as the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshops with primary care physicians and ICT service providers in order to find the best ways to implement the desired elements in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care providers and health care workers.Healthcare services for complex patients have been improvedbased on examples from Andalusia health services with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding results was thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service fosters collaboration between cure and care sectors and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial savings for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of modules which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module was developed based on the twinning results  Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred services couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indications that some solutions could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solutions is to showcase the benefits of the solutions in small-scale pilots and communicate well on different levels to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy.









A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th  13th January 2017), as part of the 2016. Both regions are recognised as 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 years to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia was developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedures were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform has been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and its design has involved professionals from the University. Among its users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the users path in the services was analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demands of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipalities that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic areas of Scotland.Among the services available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, as well as the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspects to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 weeks with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform was offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform was not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 times more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gaps to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform managers commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategies developed in collaboration with voluntary associations and the third sector. Among the challenges for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate services and other services available in the community; stability in work teams due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit was to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project was presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resources into a single repository to provide a unique access to the users history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendations for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting users about their needs, expectations and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the managers and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered users and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of its design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia.









The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopters took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning was to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other regions and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristics and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective was to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adults and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it has been used in 15 different European countries adapted to the different languages, cultures and the legal system. Due to its success it is available today in 23 countries and 17 languages with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or regions across Europe and 885 patients have been enrolled in the twinning. The results show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patients compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategies is suggested. Moreover, results show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include questions that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90.









Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partners were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and examples of how becoming involved in collaborative activities might generate results to exploit at local levels (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement has been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional clusters has been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor has been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that has been providing further elements to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 projects of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania as AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania has been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aims to develop an inter-professional care models (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patients affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and uses clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by users through the network of local health agencies and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania has been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subjects with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that has been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patients with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic properties of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patients with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that supports rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial videos and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania has been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflows in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania as OriginatorCampania has been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided as a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patients at home, as if the patient was still in the hospital. The data collected at the patients home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feeds the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience has been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issues (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practices that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative ties with EU regions through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenues for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystems brings the added value of supporting regions to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenges that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building blocks emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision.



























Twinning Marketplace 














Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offers an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender.

The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance 














Twinning Results 











The results of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinnings 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly supports thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solutions in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings works and what can and has already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. 




 

























What are Twinnings? 











Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practices from one region to another. The approach has been successfully tested in a number of EU projects and studies, including the.The region that offers the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activities include the ventures needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meetings or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fees for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solutions by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solutions with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fees for professional services not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contracts with agreed activities and deliverables; regular reporting 
























Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that supports the Digital Single Markets three priorities for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunities  between more than 90 organisations  will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE has organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. 



 
























Twinning Types 











Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It has different conditions for its budget, deployment timeframe, and the experts required.The five types range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities: they can be authorities that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other regions in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discuss a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and its transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopters (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopters is expected to be very similar. Well-established solutions are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the contents of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authorities that wish to implement aspects of an originators innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, as well as the reasons why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities with well established relations with other authorities in Europe (e.g. through memorandums of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aims to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originators infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). 



 



Examples of types of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February  May 2020)excludes Adaptation as a potential Twinning type. 
























Twinning Success Stories 











The concept of twinnings has already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success stories from regions around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. 












Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning as part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning was for Zagreb to learn about theand implement elements of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced regions in order to find digital solutions related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experiences of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategies in place. Andalusias more than 20 years of experience in eHealth systems development and its elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that supports the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administrations thanks, among other things, to its cutting-edge services such as the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshops with primary care physicians and ICT service providers in order to find the best ways to implement the desired elements in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care providers and health care workers.Healthcare services for complex patients have been improvedbased on examples from Andalusia health services with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding results was thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service fosters collaboration between cure and care sectors and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial savings for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of modules which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module was developed based on the twinning results  Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred services couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indications that some solutions could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solutions is to showcase the benefits of the solutions in small-scale pilots and communicate well on different levels to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy.









A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th  13th January 2017), as part of the 2016. Both regions are recognised as 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 years to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia was developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedures were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform has been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and its design has involved professionals from the University. Among its users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the users path in the services was analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demands of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipalities that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic areas of Scotland.Among the services available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, as well as the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspects to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 weeks with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform was offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform was not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 times more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gaps to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform managers commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategies developed in collaboration with voluntary associations and the third sector. Among the challenges for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate services and other services available in the community; stability in work teams due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit was to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project was presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resources into a single repository to provide a unique access to the users history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendations for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting users about their needs, expectations and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the managers and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered users and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of its design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia.









The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopters took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning was to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other regions and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristics and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective was to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adults and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it has been used in 15 different European countries adapted to the different languages, cultures and the legal system. Due to its success it is available today in 23 countries and 17 languages with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or regions across Europe and 885 patients have been enrolled in the twinning. The results show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patients compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategies is suggested. Moreover, results show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include questions that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90.









Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partners were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and examples of how becoming involved in collaborative activities might generate results to exploit at local levels (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement has been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional clusters has been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor has been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that has been providing further elements to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 projects of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania as AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania has been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aims to develop an inter-professional care models (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patients affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and uses clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by users through the network of local health agencies and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania has been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subjects with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that has been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patients with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic properties of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patients with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that supports rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial videos and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania has been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflows in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania as OriginatorCampania has been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided as a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patients at home, as if the patient was still in the hospital. The data collected at the patients home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feeds the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience has been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issues (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practices that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative ties with EU regions through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenues for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystems brings the added value of supporting regions to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenges that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building blocks emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision.



























Twinning Marketplace 














Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offers an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender.

The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance 














Twinning Results 











The results of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinning FAQ 





























Twinning activities must involve the transfer of digital know-how to at least one Twinning Adopter region from another region or organisation (Twinning Originator). Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different countries.



























Participation in this Request for Twinning Tenders is open on equal terms to legal entities established in a Member State (MS) of the European Union (EU).



























The call does not specify a maximum number of Twinning Adopters per twinning.



























For personnel costs, individuals contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation.



























An organisation may participate in more than one twinning tender, so long as the twinning solutions and the twinning activities are both significantly different.



























The total budget for all twinnings to be funded in this call is 932,000. Twinning contracts will be awarded based on the available budget, i.e. contracts will be awarded until the remaining budget is insufficient to fund the next best twinning tender that has passed the evaluation threshold. The maximum allowed budgets for each twinning type are as follows:  Knowledge exchange & training, digital skills: 5,000  Adaptation: 9,500  Partial adoption : 17,000  Full adoption / acquisition: 43,000



























An organisation may participate in more than one twinning tender, so long as the twinning solutions and the twinning activities are both significantly different.



























Any such cost must fall under eligibility criteria specified in the Grant Agreement, such as in Article 6.2 D.3: Costs of other goods and services (including related duties, taxes and charges such as non-deductible value added tax (VAT) paid by the beneficiary) are eligible, if they are:(a)purchased specifically for the action and in accordance with Article 10.1.1 or(b)contributed in kind against payment and in accordance with Article 11.1.Such goods and services include, for instance, consumables and supplies, dissemination (including open access), protection of results, certificates on the financial statements (if they are required by the Agreement), certificates on the methodology, translations and publications.



























At this point in time no extension of the deadline is planned. However, DigitalHealthEurope is monitoring closely the situation. An extension of the call regarding some twinning types is being considered.



























For personnel costs, individuals contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation.



























Twinning Solutions should not have been used in the adopting region(s) before the twinning takes place.



























Participation in this Request for Twinning Tenders is open on equal terms to legal entities established in a Member State (MS) of the European Union (EU). EIP on AHA Reference Site status is not a requirement in this call.



























Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different countries. In case of multiple Twinning Adopters, at least one must be from a country different to this of the Twinning Originator.



























For personnel costs, individuals contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation.



























A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entities established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category.



























A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entities established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category.



























At this point in time we are not aware of further twinning calls planned for 2020.



























Participation in this Request for Twinning Tenders is open on equal terms to legal entities established in a Member State (MS) of the European Union (EU). A specific note on UK participants is provided on page 14 of the Request for Twinning Tenders (TD0).



























Twinning activities must involve the transfer of digital know-how to at least one Twinning Adopter region from another region or organisation (Twinning Originator). Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different countries



























A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entities established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category.



























The focus of twinning is on local, regional and national health and care providers in Europe that wish to adopt innovative solutions which are available for transfer from another local, regional and national health and care provider in Europe. As the twinning scheme is implemented within a Horizon2020 project, H2020 eligible countries can apply.



























For personnel costs, individuals contributing to a twinning activity conclude a contract directly with the Acting Procurer using template TD5. It follows that direct contract between each individual concerned and the Acting Procurer must be put in place. The contract cannot be with an organisation.



























The focus of twinning is on local, regional and national health and care providers in Europe that wish to adopt innovative solutions which are available for transfer from elsewhere.



























The twinning scheme does not foresee ceilings related to the three EC priorities described in the twinning call.



























Twinning Subcontracting is a fixed sum due on completion of the twinning activities and acceptance of the invoice for funding by the Commission. Twinning Subcontracting can cover not only subcontracting taking place for the twinning itself, but also other costs incurred by Originator and Adopter(s) which cannot be invoiced directly to the Acting Procurer either as Twinning Personnel or Twinning Direct Costs.



























The twinning scheme does not discuss TRL levels. Maturity is an award criterion in the call, with the evidence of effectiveness required to be clearly described in the technical section.



























A twinning tender must be submitted by a single organisation. The budgets provided in Table 1 in TD0 are per twinning.



























Twinning activities must involve the transfer of digital know-how to at least one Twinning Adopter region from another region or organisation (Twinning Originator). Twinning Originator and Twinning Adopter(s) must be from different countries



























Twinnings can be between one Twinning Originator one Twinning Adopter, or between one Twinning Originator and multiple Adopters. Note that the maximum allowed for Twinning Subcontracting is not additional: it should be included in the maximum cost of one twinning.



























A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entities established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category.



























The contract will be awarded to the most economically advantageous tender as described in the Request for Twinning Tenders (TD0).



























A Twinning Contractor can be a Twinning Originator, a Twinning Adopter region or a Third Party. Participation is open to legal entities established in a Member State of the European Union. Twinning subcontracting is an eligible cost category.



























For the Twinning Personnel budget, eligibility criteria are specified in Grant Agreement 6.2 A.2: The costs for natural persons working under a direct contract with the beneficiary other than an employment contract are eligible personnel costs, if: (a)the person works under conditions similar to those of an employee (in particular regarding the way the work is organised, the tasks that are performed and the premises where they are performed);(b)the result of the work carried out belongs to the beneficiary (unless exceptionally agreed otherwise), and(c)the costs are not significantly different from those for personnel performing similar tasks under an employment contract with the beneficiary. For the Twinning Direct Costs, eligibility criteria are specified in Grant Agreement 6.2 D.1: Travel costs and related subsistence allowances(including related duties, taxes and charges such as non-deductible value added tax (VAT) paid by the beneficiary) are eligible if they are in line with the beneficiarys usual practices on travel.



























Twinning Subcontracting can be used. Twinning Subcontracting is a fixed sum due on completion of the twinning activities and acceptance of the invoice for funding by the Commission. Twinning Subcontracting can cover not only subcontracting taking place for the twinning itself, but also other costs incurred by Originator and Adopter(s) which cannot be invoiced directly to the Acting Procurer either as Twinning Personnel or Twinning Direct Costs.



































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Twinnings 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding aTwinning Schemewhich directly supports thereplicationandscaling up of successful and highly impactful digital health and care solutions in Europe.Twocalls for Twinning applicationshave been organised so far. Learn more about how the concept of twinnings works and what can and has already been achieved with the aid of this instrument. 




 

























What are Twinnings? 











Twinnings are a mechanism for facilitating the transfer and implementation of digitally-enabled innovative practices from one region to another. The approach has been successfully tested in a number of EU projects and studies, including the.The region that offers the innovation is called originator, and the implementing region is the adopter. In some cases, an external facilitator may be needed. Funded activities include the ventures needed to carry out the twinning (e.g. organising hosting meetings or technical groups, and financing travel expenses, licenses, or fees for professional services). Twinnings will typically last for a whole year.Aim:to de-risk investment in digital innovative ICT solutions by financing the exchange of knowledge and good practice in digital health solutions with high potential for replicability and scaling upRoles:originator & adopter of the innovative practice, facilitatorFunding scope:activities necessary to carry out the twinnings (e.g. hosting meetings, technical groups, travel expenses, licenses, fees for professional services not covered)Timeframe:typically up to one yearFormat:twinning applications; award contracts with agreed activities and deliverables; regular reporting 
























Twinnings in DigitalHealthEurope 











DigitalHealthEurope is funding a twinning scheme that supports the Digital Single Markets three priorities for the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative:citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across bordersbetter data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and caredigital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careMore than 45 twinnings opportunities  between more than 90 organisations  will be organised. Funding will be provided to carry out twinning activities.DHE has organised two Calls for Twinnings in 2019 and 2020. 



 
























Twinning Types 











Twinnings can be grouped into five types. Each type is very specific. It has different conditions for its budget, deployment timeframe, and the experts required.The five types range from knowledge exchange and training to acquisition:Knowledge exchange and training: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities: they can be authorities that are not too experienced in EU networking, but are eager to learn from other regions in Europe. Here, the twinning provides a first step to discuss a concrete solution (product, service, methodology) and its transfer to the adopting region(s). The twinning is used to build capacity. This includes identifying staff, setting up a process roadmap, and defining expected outcomesAdaptation*: This type of twinning is suitable for multiple adopters (i.e., one originator can work with several adopters). The adaptation process across adopters is expected to be very similar. Well-established solutions are adapted to the local context (e.g. translating the contents of a mobile app, introducing a prevention programme).Partial adoption: This type of twinning is suitable for local authorities that wish to implement aspects of an originators innovative approach. Twinnings that perform a partial adoption will have to provide concrete evidence on the potential impact of the adoption, as well as the reasons why a full adoption is not possible (e.g. because they have different healthcare systems, organisations, or reimbursement schemes).Full adoption / acquisition: This type of twinning mainly targets local authorities with well established relations with other authorities in Europe (e.g. through memorandums of understanding, past EU project partnerships, etc.) and who have already planned collaboration on a specific topic/solution. The twinning aims to achieve a full adoption of the solution in the adopting region(s) using local infrastructure (including adaptation) or the originators infrastructure (via acquiring or licensing it using appropriate business models). 



 



Examples of types of exchange*TheSecond DHE Call for Twinnings (February  May 2020)excludes Adaptation as a potential Twinning type. 
























Twinning Success Stories 











The concept of twinnings has already been succesfully employed in several project and studies. DigitalHealthEurope would like to share some twinning success stories from regions around Europe which have been previously funded under the study twinning scheme. 












Health Center Zagreb and the Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia took part in a twinning as part of the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings. The aim of the twinning was for Zagreb to learn about theand implement elements of it in the region. Zagreb wished to twin with advanced regions in order to find digital solutions related to Active and Healthy Aging that could be implemented in the region, and to learn from experiences of Reference Sites that have successful eHealth strategies in place. Andalusias more than 20 years of experience in eHealth systems development and its elaborate operating system Diraya made the Andalusian Reference Site the excellent candidate for twinning. Zagreb and Andalusia submitted a twinning application for knowledge transfer focusing on theDiraya system.Diraya is a comprehensive system that supports the Andalusian electronic medical record system. The conceptual model and the technological architecture of Diraya have raised enormous interest in other health administrations thanks, among other things, to its cutting-edge services such as the electronic prescription or the centralized appointment system.Following the twinning, Health Center Zagreb organised a series of co-development workshops with primary care physicians and ICT service providers in order to find the best ways to implement the desired elements in the Croatian healthcare ecosystem. As a result of these sessions,a set of moduleswhich were added to the existing serviceZdravlje.netwere created and carefully implemented by conductinga series of pilot-projects. This proved to be a highly successful approach, resulting inopening up new communication channelsbetween citizens, health care providers and health care workers.Healthcare services for complex patients have been improvedbased on examples from Andalusia health services with the expected significant impact on the quality of health service delivery.One of the most challenging, yet rewarding results was thedevelopment of the E-consultation moduleinformed by theDiraya systemand the experience of Andalusia. E-consultation is a cross-specialty communication tool built on an existing inter-professional communication model Zdravlje.net PRO used in GP practices. This digital service fosters collaboration between cure and care sectors and provides multidimensional approach to managing patients. Patients can receive hospital specialist recommendation for managing a specific health issue based on GP-hospital specialist multidisciplinary interaction. This recommendation then transforms to time and financial savings for the patient and the healthcare system, optimised care patterns, and could help improve quality of care and health outcomes.The twinning with Diraya informed the development of a number of modules which have since been added to the existing Zagreb service portfolio. Most notably, an e-consultation module was developed based on the twinning results  Antonija Balenovi, Director of Health Center ZagrebWith the current level of scale-up and through the increasing public demand, the transferred services couldreach up to 350 000 patientsand there are indications that some solutions could soon be implemented on national level, potentially impacting millions. We believe that the key to more adaptive policy on digital health solutions is to showcase the benefits of the solutions in small-scale pilots and communicate well on different levels to both create the public demand for the solution and facilitate the adoption of enabling policy.









A delegation from Andalusia took part in a twinning study visit to Scotland (12th  13th January 2017), as part of the 2016. Both regions are recognised as 4-starof the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (). The visit focused on the Scottish platform(LiU), aimed at people over 50 years to promote active and healthy aging.The Regional Ministry of Health of Andalusia was developing the Promotion of Active and Healthy Aging through Digital Solutionsfunded by the European Regional Development Fund ERDF, with the aim of launching a digital platform in Andalusia similar to the Scottish one, hence the great interest in this visit.On January 12th, the visit started at the NHS24 site, Scottish public organization for telehealth and telecare, in Cardonald, where theLiUservices and procedures were presented, including health advice and information.LiUis a digital service in which allows to access and share local information to adopt a happy and healthy lifestyle. Through theLiUplatform, the main challenge of the Scottish Government is to motivate people to acquire and voluntarily choose a lifestyle that provides physical and mental well-being. Thus, the motto of the Scottish platform can be summarised in the following expression: Be healthier, be happier and feel more secure.The platform has been developed with the participation of more than 3,000 people, and its design has involved professionals from the University. Among its users, more than 55% are people with at least one chronic disease, interested in the management of their disease and the connection with their environment. Another 35% have had a recent health incident. Therefore, the users path in the services was analysed to consolidate the platform, seeking to respond to the demands of these user profiles. TheLiUplatform is fed by information from the Local Services Database of Scotland (ALISS) updated by the municipalities that have committed to it. The platform is currently active in several geographic areas of Scotland.Among the services available on the Scottish platform are smartcare applications, designed to record and share relevant information on health and social care of each person, as well as the possibility of managing the registration of appointments. The social and health information generated through the application meet the confidentiality and security requirements.One of the aspects to highlight in the process of implementing the Scottish platform is the evaluation carried out through a study developed over 12 weeks with continuous monitoring of two profiles: people to whom the platform was offered and who entered it and another control group to which the platform was not offered. The group that entered the platform used 3 times more health services; in addition they have had an added value when detecting accessibility gaps to social services.On January 13th, the visit continued to the NHS centre in the geographical area of Lothian-Forth Valley to learn about the work at the local level on theLiving it Upplatform. Platform managers commented how promotion and dissemination is carried out at all levels, through direct contact with health professionals; and through digital literacy strategies developed in collaboration with voluntary associations and the third sector. Among the challenges for theLiUplatform were the connectivity between corporate services and other services available in the community; stability in work teams due to funding issues; the capture of the target population of the platform; the resistance on the part of medical professionals; the improvement of the browsing experience, etc.The final visit was to the Health Department of the Scottish Government, where the National Citizen Portal project was presented, of which theLiving it Upplatform is a part. The objective of this initiative is to integrate health and social resources into a single repository to provide a unique access to the users history of health and social services.The Andalusian delegation had the opportunity to learn firsthand the main recommendations for the development of the digital platform of Active and Healthy Aging in Andalusia, including education and literacy of potential users; consulting users about their needs, expectations and demands; the commitment to participate jointly in the development of the platform; the co-design and co-production of content for the platform by the managers and the users.Today, the Andalusian AHA digital platform is actively running at. There are more than 30000 registered users and it is evolving thanks to the co-creation process of its design. The visit to Scotland helped not only to learn what went right but also to share potential pitfalls, accelerating the development process in Andalusia.









The MACVIA-France Network and initially ten adopters took part in the 2016 ScaleAHA twinnings: Campania (IT), Catalonia (ES), Porto (PT), Olomouc (CZ), Lodz (PL), Medical Delta (NL), Northern Ireland (GB), Piemonte (IT), Southern Denmark (DK) and GARD Regional Network Turkey (TR).The aim of the twinning was to introduce the French(formerly Allergy Diary) to the other regions and especially enroll elderly people in order to get insight into characteristics and treatment of rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity in this group. The longer-term objective was to make individualised and predictive medicine available for rhinitis and asthma multi-morbidity of older people. Moreover, the percentage of adults and elderly that are able to use the app were to be examined.MASK-aircollects information on the symptoms, the disease type, the impact and the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Initially it has been used in 15 different European countries adapted to the different languages, cultures and the legal system. Due to its success it is available today in 23 countries and 17 languages with 26.000 registered users.1The twinning started with ten European adopters. Today the app is deployed by 22 Reference Sites or regions across Europe and 885 patients have been enrolled in the twinning. The results show that a major problem in the treatment of allergy is the patients compliance with the prescribed treatment. Therefore, an expansion of self-management strategies is suggested. Moreover, results show that a patient-centred approach should be used for education strategies.Rhinitis and asthma affect the sleep of patients. MASK-air can evaluate sleep impairment. For future use the app is being developed to include questions that relate to sleep. Furthermore, the data collected by the app shall be correlated with the amount of allergen exposure and pollution.21Bousquet J, Agache I, Aliberti MR, et al. Transfer of innovation on allergic rhinitis and asthmamultimorbidity in the elderly (MACVIA-ARIA) EIP on AHATwinning Reference Site (GARD research demonstrationproject). Allergy. 2018;73:7792;all.13218, p. 83.2 Ibid. p.90.









Campania early cluster joined the EIP on AHA community in 2013. The initial core partners were welcomed in the different Action Groups, that provided guidance and examples of how becoming involved in collaborative activities might generate results to exploit at local levels (university, health system, SMEs, community). Further engagement has been progressively supported by the set-up of the RSCN, where the interaction with other EU regional clusters has been pivotal to increase the maturity and structure of Campania Reference Site (CRS). A key enabling factor has been the parallel set-up of the national network for the internationalization of the regional health systems, the ProMIS, that has been providing further elements to strengthen the regional approach, also helping to overcome local bottlenecks.TwinningsCampania Reference Site for the EIP on AHA participated in 5 projects of the Transfer of Innovation Twinning Support Scheme call, in order to contribute to the European scaling-up strategy of the EIP on AHA at regional level.Campania as AdopterMACVICA (France):Campania has been adopter from MACVIA of Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA), a multisectoral pathway for rhinitis and related multimorbidity in older adults. The ARIA initiative aims to develop an inter-professional care models (Pharmacists, GPs, Specialists) for an integrated management of patients affected by allergic rhinitis. The project is developed through a smartphone app that allows assessment of rhinitis, and uses clinical decision support system (CDSS). The goal of the scale-up in Campania is to accelerate the adoption of the tool by users through the network of local health agencies and pharmacies.QMCI-I (Ireland): Campania has been adopter from Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment screen (QMCI), a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish normal people from subjects with MCI. The twinning with Ireland led to a multicenter study that has been aimed at validating the Italian version of the QMCI (QMCI-I) and to obtain normative data. Further study in Italian patients with MCI are ongoing, to better clarify the diagnostic properties of the QMCI-I, to be addressed by ICT supported neurologic multi-domain training.Telerevalidatie.nl (Netherlands):Through the Twinning support scheme, CRS developed a pilot study for the adoption of the tool of tele-rehabilitation Telerevalidatie.nl to evaluate the adoptability of the tool in patients with Chronic Heart Failure. It is is an ICT Platform that supports rehabilitation at home, allowing the patient to receive a personalized training program with tutorial videos and to track their training progress and physical activity during all day.MGP (Netherlands):Campania has been the adopter in a Twinning project on a digital Modular Gastrological Platform (MGP) facilitating inter-professional effort to implement a primary gastrological approach to address specific food needs. MGP focused on supporting workflows in the Primary and Secondary Care Level, grounded in capacity/knowledge building of the chef workforce.Campania as OriginatorCampania has been the Originator in a twinning scheme with CTIC Centro Tecnolgico Asturias, Spain, on an innovative practice consisting of an ICT-based home monitoring system provided as a service by a private company of home care, Assistenza Domiciliare per Dimissioni Protette (ADD) protection, that allows the hospital staff to monitor the patients at home, as if the patient was still in the hospital. The data collected at the patients home are made available to the staff of the hospital through a web-based platform, which feeds the hospital Electronic Health Record (EHR) of the patient.The impactThe twinning experience has been impacting the local ecosystem of health innovation in different ways:Raising awareness about the urge to address some specific issues (ex. Polypharmacy, integrated care, education and training, empowerment, adapted physical activity etc);Facilitating access to validated good practices that could be tailored to the local context;Strengthening the collaborative ties with EU regions through agreements;Identifying and exploring new avenues for sustainable development that could be pursued at local level with new, interinstitutional approaches.The futureJoining international ecosystems brings the added value of supporting regions to enter a journey with enthusiasm and courage, facing challenges that would not be possible to address standing alone. Building a stepwise approach towards the digital transformation of health and care will bring sustainability to our health systems, by piecing together the building blocks emerging from the twinning experience into a shared vision.



























Twinning Marketplace 














Twinning MarketplaceTo facilitate the forming of twinnings, DigitalHealthEurope offers an online twinning marketplace. There Twinning Originators can post about their available Twinning Solutions and Twinning Adopters can specify their requirements, enabling matchmaking and the preparation of a twinning tender.

The DHE Twinnings Marketplace is currently under maintenance 














Twinning Results 











The results of the two DigitalHealthEurope Call for Twinnings are available. 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 

























Results and Publications 































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent


















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 

























Support Services 











DigitalHealthEuropes main objective is supporting thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care.DHE has designed, developed and successfully implemented several services targeting this objective: 






















Successful digital health initiatives catalogue 



The  contains up-to-date 65 mature, highly impactful and replicable solutions which are theresult of EU-funded projects and initiativesthat address challenges related to the Digital Transformation of Health and Care policy priorities. The solutions havehigh potential for scaling up and replicabilityacross Europe. 











Structured advice on EU funding instruments and financing sources 



A  has been developed with relevant open calls from Horizon Europe and EU4HealthThe  provides a wide an open space for interested stakeholders to exchange ideas about interesting calls, stimulate and build project consortia, find the right partnersDHE has also collected and promoted , info days providing detailed explanations about the new funding programmes and how to prepare a successful proposalThree events were organised to ,  between and  successfully bidding public healthcare providers. 









                                          
























MAFEIP analysis of highly impactful digital health interventions 



TheMonitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing(MAFEIP)offers socio-economic impact assessment support for evidence-based decision-making processes. MAFEIP has successfully completed the  and started the assessment with many others. If you are interested to have your intervention analysed, just contact the . 











Supporting demand and supply for scaling-up digital health and care solutions 



Healthcare providers together with the private sector, ICT companies were also offered aid for their scaling-up person-centred digital solutions. The  mapped the strategic, technical, and operational barriers and provided recommendations on how to overcome them and mobilise investment in person-centred health care at various levels between local and European. 

































DHE twinnings  



DHE organised two calls for twinning during the lifetime of the project (2020, 2021) to facilitate the scale-up of digital health and care solutions between regions.  were realised that spanned between knowledge transfer and full adoption/acquisition. DHE has produced a twinning brochure outlining in a simple and concise way what twinning means and giving a little flavour of the DHE twinning results.Inspiring summaries about the twinning outcomes are also shared on the . 











Capacity building DHE knowledge tree 



This knowledge tree is organised using the six key components of the Capacity Building Framework identified within the EU project. These have been sub-divided into twenty building blocks. The knowledge tree includes concrete resources collected from different projects and initiatives such as articles, videos, reports, brochures, etc. 

































Digital Health Standards 



Digital Health Standards is a joint communication effort between the DigitalHealthEurope project, empirica and The European Institute for Innovation through Health Data to grow awareness about the importance of health ICT standards. 



















						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Resources 
















 











DisclaimerDigitalHealthEuropeseeks to make public in as open and at an early stage of development as possible, materials and reports that can be useful resources for members of the public and stakeholders working in the field of digital transformation of health and care. We declare, however, that these are often materials in development: they have not yet necessarily been officially reviewed and approved by European Commission officials. 























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























A portfolio of useful evidence of benefits for digitally-empowered patients 











As part of its work, DigitalHealthEurope is putting together a portfolio of case studies offering evidence of benefit from digitally empowered patients (corresponding to Milestone 6 of the project).Before listing useful materials that offer evidence of benefits for Europes digitally-empowered patients, it is good to understand:What is patient empowerment?What is digital health?What benefits accrue to digitally-empowered patients?What is patient empowermentPatient empowerment has been defined as a multi-dimensional process that helps people gain control over their own lives and increases their capacity to act on issues that they themselves define as important. Collective empowerment is a process through which individuals and communities are able to express their needs, present their concerns, devise strategies for involvement in decision-making, and take political, social, and cultural action to meet those needs. (Adapted from work by the European Union Network for Patient Safety and Quality of Care [PASQ]).What is digital health and what doesit mean for patients?Digital health is a fast-developing area in which much of todays activity is driven by technology or commercial concerns rather than patients needs. EPF wishes to position the patient community as a driver of innovation and start a debate on what patients need and want on a daily basis from the healthcare system and its organisation, and how technology should be serving these needs. As it is also a strategic priority for EPF for a decade now, in 2019, EPF has launched the Working Group on Digital Health (DHWG), with the aim of developing EPFs overall strategy on digital health. Throughout the last decade EPF has been involved in numerous EU-funded projects and initiatives on digital health thus bringing the patient perspective into these endeavours, but also shaping how the future healthcare service will look like.Recent work by DigitalHealthEuropeDigitalHealthEurope has done a preliminary screening (a literature search). As a result, it has gathered together some examples of good practices and recommendations on patient empowerment and digital health. The portfolio of useful materials includes some position papers and policy statements produced and developed by DigitalHealthEurope partners, like the European Patients Forum and others.This evidence strengthens positively the reasons to produce these two outcomes at the end of DigitalHealthEurope:A Guide for scaling up digital solutions for citizen-healthcare professionals interaction.This guide will act as an empowerment roadmap for healthcare providers or larger scale healthcare ecosystems to become more successful at engaging with patients and caregivers.A White paper on boosting active cooperation between patients and health and care providers.A portfolio of useful materials 























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP) 











 











The Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP)supportsevidence-based decision-making processes for all institutions and users in the EU health and care sector. It is a web-based tool whose purpose is to estimate the health and economic outcomes of a large variety of ICT-enabled social andhealth innovations.The innovations includenew care pathways, devices, surgical techniques, and organisational models.In DigitalHealthEurope, MAFEIP is used bymanyorganisations to assess their impact and cost-effectiveness in order to show their high potential for scaling up and replicability across Europe.Explore the MAFEIP website, learn more about how the tool works,andfind outhow to join the MAFEIP user community!Come and meet us at. 














Status
Solution or Good practice
Project Description


Finished

i-PROGNOSIS is a project comprising a partnership made up of eleven academic institutions and companies, from six EU countries, led by Aristotle University of Thessanloniki, Greece. The primary objective of i-PROGNOSIS is to provide an early detection of Parkinsons Disease through unobtrusive tests based on everday interaction of users with their technological devices.

Systematic tests of the i-PROGNOSIS interventions in patients with Parkinsons Disease (PD) were carried out by three intervention pilots in: Greece (Thessaloniki), UK (London) and Germany (Dresden).


Finished

Do CHANGE is a project that ended in 2018 and was tested in Spain, the Netherlands, and Taiwan, in addition to receiving funding under the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 programme. The objective of this project was to develop a health ecosystem to provide citizens with high blood pressure and patients with ischemic disease or heart failure, an integrated disease management system. This system used new innovative wearable smart tools that scan the food and fluids consumed by the individuals as well as monitored behavior in the individuals living situation.


Finished

The main aim of the project BeyondSilos was to enable the delivery of integrated care to older European citizens to support them to live independent lives in the community by providing the ICT tools necessary to integrate care pathways across organisations and locations, in particular between social and health care providers.One of the key areas of the integration was to provide common access to home platforms for all the crosssectorial care teams in order to improve care coordination and, therefore, the continuity of care.


Finished

The United4Health project (U4H) tested telehealth services targeting the three main chronic diseases found among the EU population: diabetes, COPD, and CHF. This case covers the telehealth service for patients living with COPD, which has the aim to provide an alternative way to support self-management through the provision of an appropriate level of telemonitoring that is flexible and can respond with fluctuations in their health status and thus avoid future emergency hospital admissions due to a COPD exacerbation.


Finished

Kinesis QTUG is a medical device that assesses an older adults falls risk, frailty, and mobility with the objective to facilitate the accurate and early identification of patients at risk of falling. This would allow for a timely intervention, which could reduce the incidence of fallrelated injury and its associated costs. QTUG automatically analyses patients data and compares it with the reference values for the patients age and gender.


Finished

The main aim of CKD Integrated Care project that was conducted in the Puglia area was to address the need to reduce the level of dialysis taking place in hospitals, and thereby increase the amount of dialysis treatment at home. The goal of the project was to increase quality of life for patients treated with haemodialysis, by increasing home care while reducing the costs of hospitalisation.


Almost finished

PERSSILAA (PERsonalised ICT Supported Service for Independent Living and Active Ageing) aims at the development and validation of a new service model that addresses frailty in community dwelling for older adults. PERSSILAAs main focus is to (1) develop remote service modules for screening, monitoring and training, (2) enable a transition of care services from fragmented reactive disease management to preventive personalised services, that are offered locally, supported by proactive caregivers and health professionals, which are integrated into existing healthcare services, and (3) set up a technical service infrastructure to support these multiple services and users in an efficient, reliable and easy way which have been entailed gamification, interoperability and clinical decision support.


Almost finished

WithREHABILITY, patients can carry out theirrehabilitation exercises from either the centre in which they are hospitalised or remotely, autonomously but with medical supervision. This version is based on many years of scientific research with specific studies instroke,Multiple SclerosisandParkinsons disease. In general, REHABILITYenables patients to carry out their personalised rehabilitation exercisesfrom the convenience and safety of their home.


More than half-way

ACTIVAGE is a European Multi Centric Large-Scale Pilot on Smart Living Environments, with the goal of building the first European Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystemto provide services that support and extend the independent living of older adults in their living environments, and respond to real needs of caregivers, service providers and public authorities.

The deployment pilot site located in Galicia, Spain was chosen due to the high percentage of the elderly population (65+ years) and the high percentage of expenditure in the healthcare public sector, with respect to the regions public budget. The use cases deployed in Galicia, include the following: integrated care, emergency trigger, cognitive simulation, prevention of social isolation, and daily active monitoring at home.


More than half-way

The objective of the ACTIVAGE pilot project located in Valencia, is to create a real-life experiment deployment by providing informal caregivers information to understand the daily behaviour of elderly at home and outside. Using IoT solutions, this pilot deployment project provides 24-hour, continuous monitoring of elderly people. The pilot envisages continuous monitoring both in the home of the elderly, in addition to the monitoring of their well-being inside and outside the home in order to make the environment for elderly people safer, easier, and more helpful.


More than half-way

The ACTIVAGE pilot project, with the deployment location in Madrid, Spain, focuses on the early detection and prevention of cognitive performance decrease as well as the risk of falling for elderly individuals. The Madrid deployment site achieves this by implementing an IoT system that transforms the living environment of a patient, both in and out of the home, into a smart living environment to non-intrusively monitoring the daily activities of elderly individuals.


More than half-way

The objective of the pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE located in Emilia Romagna, Italy, is to support independent life and ageing by reducing hospitalisation and increasing physical resource utilisation through the monitoring of essential daily activities of elderly individuals. This pilot population is specifically narrowed to mainly elderly individuals who are recovering from a stroke event and are still suffering from the after-effects of strokes, although they do not strictly require institutionalization.


More than half-way

The large-scale Greek pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE promotes a four-fold objective. Firstly, the project promotes Silver Economy policy initiatives on eHealth, active and health ageing, senior tourism, and age-friendly housing. The second objective is to encourage elderly individuals to live independently at home as long as possible, in a health way, through better prevention, community-based solutions, and innovative home care. Next, this Greek pilot boosts innovation by accelerating the development of information and communications technology (ICT) services for the elderly community. Finally, the fourth objective is to support the autonomy of elderly people living on their own by supporting demand-driven solutions through quality and sustainable welfare systems.


More than half-way

The ACTIVAGE pilot project, with the deployment location in Isre, France, focuses on providing care that combines human and technical assistance, which bridges the different moment in an elderly individuals life to limit the loss of autonomy and avoid unnecessary re-hospitalization. The way this is promoted is through daily active monitoring through smart home environments, emergency triggers that detect patterns or events requiring immediate attention, exercise promotion to prevent situations such as falls, social participation through monitoring the interactions and communications with different people, and finally, the safety, comfort, and security at home through the management of sensors and actuators.


Half-way

The objective of the pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE located in Germany is to implement an open, extensible system that is replicable and affordable and provides assistance at home and monitoring in nursing homes with automatic, emergency situation recognition software and handling. The German state is investing in buildings, for elderly people, that are equipped with AAL technology which allows for monitoring and IoT infrastructure.


Half-way

Leeds, England has a rising elderly population (65+ years) and a welcoming view towards innovation. It is also the deployment site for ACTIVAGE, with the objective at this site to create a single platform for the elderly, informal and formal caretakers, and health care professionals, and healthy ageing at home by enabling remote monitoring, emergency triggers, and risk identification. The two main use cases for this deployment site are independent living support and personal health and symptoms monitoring. The Leeds deployment site aims to implement energy monitoring equipment along with home sensors as well as smart watches. This provides services around fall detection, remote monitoring of vital health stats, and non-intrusive behaviour detection system through daily active monitoring at home. Furthermore, this project aims to reduce social isolation by facilitating connections through technology and early intervention.


Half-way

The objectives of the pilot deployment site for ACTIVAGE located in Finland, are to improve the quality of life for elderly individuals and allow them to live independently with more security as well as increase the physical activity of elderly individuals who are at risk of falling. The objective of independent living is supported by introducing IoT based monitoring of daily activities of elderly individuals at home for self-management and for both informal and formal care giver support. This deployment site also strives to implement integrated care by integrating home care services of the municipality with support of the informal caregivers of the elderly individuals. Regarding the objective of increasing physical activity to prevent falls, exercise is promoted through different options such as gamified physiotherapy, effective rehabilitation with digitalisation.


Half-way

The purpose of this study was to conduct a multi-centre randomised controlled trial with patients diagnosed with an eating disorder. In this experiment, the patients from the experimental group have tested an mHealth application (TCApp developed by HealthApp) and then, a clinical efficacy analysis evaluation was performed. It was expected that the implementation of the intensive intervention program with the TCApp would allow an increased improvement of the symptoms related to the eating disorder among patients and also would lead to improvements of several secondary outcomes, such as anxiety, depression and quality of life of both patients and their caregivers. The preliminary results showed that the TCApp is not more effective than regular therapy, both interventions showed an effect on multiple outcomes. In addition, it was expected that the implementation of the intensive treatment with the TCApp by the experimental group would be more cost-effective compared to the control group. Currently, the cost-effectiveness is being analysed.


Half-way

The telehealth service for patients after AMI and on anticoagulation treatment introduces remote monitoring of elderly patients who are hospitalised for acute infarct of myocardium (AMI) in cases of newly diagnosed (or until then unknown diagnosis of) diabetes using telehealth services and patients on anticoagulation treatment. The patients are telemonitored for AMI relapse, unstable angina pectoris and need of further interventional or chirurgic revascularization.

The purpose of the current practice is to support patients at home, early detection of frequent comorbidity (diabetes) and respond to unwanted development of patients on anticoagulation regime.


Started

The telehomecare Project was started to monitor from home patients with chronic diseases; the aim is to reduce hospital admissions and the length of bed-days in the hospital. The activities include the involvement of hospital specialists, family doctors and professionals working in the area. At any time and in any place the doctor can monitor and communicate with the patient who is cared for from home. The project has also generated a psychological improvement of patients health and wellbeing. Through the use of an innovative technology called hospital at home all main physiological parameters of patients are monitored.


Started

HappyAiris aSmart Communityfor the integral care of patients with chronic or rare respiratory diseases such as Asthma, COPD or Alpha-1. The HappyAir community provides online and offline training and resources in digital health and social care to patients, family, caregivers, healthcare professionals and researchers. Using the platform, all members are able to connect in order to improve the health and well-being of patients, learn to manage self-care, ensure an active lifestyle, and contribute to the development of current and future research projects.


Started

Carealia brings affordable, highly efficient interconnected devices in everyday healthcare. In the era of Internet of Things, the solutions integrate a wide selection of wearable and ambient devices, allowing information exchange and interpretation. While most healthcare solutions focus on a single aspect, such as sleep or physical activity, Carealia monitors and combines multiple life aspects in one place, providing clinicians with a holistic picture of behavioural patterns and symptoms. The solutions have been shown to aid in the assessment and personalised care of dementia.


Started

vCare is an H2020 European project that aims to provide a smart coaching solution grounded on personalized care pathways. vCare stands for Virtual Coaching activities for rehabilitation in elderly and aims at an improved rehabilitation for people as they age, designing personalised rehabilitation programmes that will lead to better continuity of care and a better quality of life for patients who use an advanced virtual coaching system. vCare is exploring how data from at least three sources  the living environment, health information, and regular interactions with affected patients  can be linked intelligently to make certain that patients experience a personalised transition from clinical rehabilitation in the hospital back to home. The project started in 2017 and will end in 2021.


 























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 




































The European Innovation Partnership in Active and Healthy Ageing (EIP on AHA) is an initiative launched by the European Commission to foster innovation and digital transformation in the field of active and healthy ageing. Its overarching target is to increase the average healthy lifespan of EU citizens by 2 years by the year 2020.The EIP on AHA pursues a Triple Win for Europe:Improving the health and quality of life of Europeans with a focus on older people;Supporting the long-term sustainability and efficiency of health and social care systems;Enhancing the competitiveness of EU industry through business and expansion in new markets









The Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (MAFEIP) intends to support evidence-based decision-making processes for all institutions and users in the EU health and care sector. It is a web-based tool whose purpose is to estimate the health and economic outcomes of a large variety of ICT enabled social and health innovations, including new care pathways, devices, surgical techniques, and organisational models, among others.









The European Blueprint on Digital Transformation of Health and Care for the Ageing Society  reflects the common policy vision of European policy makers, civil society, professional organisations and industry.As a shared policy vision, the Blueprint guides the efforts of the EIP on AHA Action Groups and Reference Sites. The Blueprint is essential to mobilise investments and guarantee the commitment of all actors including industrial players, regional authorities, professional and civil society organisations and multi-stakeholder platforms.









The purpose of the Innovation to Market (I2M) initiative is to improve the match between the demand side and supply side in AHA, by engaging in a dialogue and organising a series of activities and services that involve the two sides of the market.









On April 25th 2018, the European Commission published a Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of Regions on enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single Market; empowering citizens and building a healthier society.









The internet and digital technologies are transforming our world. Barriers online can deny people the full benefits that digital developments can offer.Making the EUs single market fit for the digital age requires tearing down unnecessary regulatory barriers and moving from individual national markets to one single EU-wide rulebook.The Digital Single Market designates the strategy of the European Commission for the best possible access to the online world for individuals and businesses.ADigital Single Market (DSM)is one in which the free movement of persons, services and capital is ensured and where the individuals and businesses can seamlessly access and engage in online activities under conditions of fair competition, and a high level of consumer and personal data protection, irrespective of their nationality or place of residence.









The eHealth Network was established under Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Union. It is envisioned as a voluntary network connecting national authorities responsible for eHealth designated by the Member States. The purpose of the eHealth Network is to support and facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information among Member States.









eHAction is a Joint Action supporting the eHealth Network. It is a collaborative action between Member States/ Countries (MS/C) participating in the third Health Programme to develop, share, refine, test tools, methods and approaches to specific issues or activities and engage in capacity building in key areas of interest. Joint Actions have a clear EU added value and are co-financed by European Commission and MS authorities that are responsible for health.


























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























DigitalHealthEurope Funding Database 











The DigitalHealthEurope project aims to support the stakeholders active in the digital health field with up-to-date information about funding opportunities to realise their ideas and scale-up their innovations in partnerships with other European stakeholders.
With the new Horizon Europe, Digital Europe, EU4Health programmes being published in 2021, we have made a collection of relevant calls targeting research about person-centred digital and/or data-driven solutions, their development and deployment.
The database is structured around the three priorities of the digital transformation of health and care. It includes information about the programme, the budget, the submission deadline and it also allows real-time searching across the open calls by keywords.
The DigitalHealthEurope project did not only produce a database of relevant funding, but it also offers services based on this collection.
Find out more about related services:





You might also be interested in the following webinars:






 







































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Glossary 



































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent

















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Get involved! 











Stakeholder engagement and dialogue are seen as crucial for the success of the Support DigitalHealthEurope provides.We encourage you to get involved!There are numerous ways stakeholders can be involved in DigitalHealthEurope:Applying forfunding fortwinnings to teach or learn from another regions digital tools for person-centred integrated careParticipating in the three Multistakeholder community to help shape the European Commissions agenda regarding the three DSM priorities for health and care.Multistakeholder community on citizens secure access to and sharing of health dataMultistakeholder community on better data to promote research, disease prevention, personalised health and careMultistakeholder community on digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred careParticipation may include include being invited to relevant events, providing expert opinion via surveys and interviews, etc.By filling in the form below, you ensure that you will be kept up-to-date on DigitalHealthEurope engagement opportunities and news. 


















Subscribe to our mailing list
* indicates required

Email Address  *




First Name 



Last Name 



Organisation 



Phone Number 



Country 


United States of America
Aaland Islands
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua And Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote D'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curacao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Falkland Islands
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern Territories
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard and Mc Donald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey  (Channel Islands)
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Moldova, Republic of
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Korea
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Republic of Kosovo
Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa (Independent)
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Helena
St. Pierre and Miquelon
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks & Caicos Islands
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
Uruguay
USA Minor Outlying Islands
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City State (Holy See)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (British)
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
Wallis and Futuna Islands
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe



I am interested in activities related to ... 
the project as a whole (incl. twinnings, building blocks for person-centred care, etc.)
collaboration platform on citizens' secure access to and sharing of health data
collab. platform on better data to promote research, disease prevention,personalised health and care
collab. platform on digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care




Permissions
Please select all the ways you would like to hear from DHE:

Email 

You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. For information about our privacy practices, please visit our website.


We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. 





 































						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 






























DigitalHealthEuropeSupport to enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single MarketDigital Solutions for Health and Care Management in Times of CoronavirusA catalogue of mature telehealth solutions which enable remote/tele-monitoring, ePrescribing and other remotely managed services during the COVID-19 pandemic. Better Implementation of Data Infrastructures and Secondary Uses of Health DataA DigitalHealthEurope White Paper explores the evolving European and national landscapes of health data-sharing for care and for researchDigitalHealthEurope catalogue of digital solutions supporting the digital transformation of health and careBrowse the database of 65 mature digital solutions resulting from EU-funded projects and initiatives that address challenges related to key policy priorities.Scaling up of Digitally-enabled Health and Care Solutions via TwinningsFind out more about the ongoing DigitalHealthEurope Twinnings awarded funding as a result of the DHE Calls for Twinnings. 


 Previous slide


 Next slide















DigitalHealthEurope recommendations on the European Health Data Space 







 







Supporting responsible health data sharing and use through governance, policy and practiceAfter almost two years of intense consultations with nearly 140 stakeholders and experts from diverse areas, DigitalHealthEurope has developed proposals for regulatory action, policy and strategy, as well as further actions of support to enable responsible health data sharing and use. These recommendations are directed towards the envisioned European Health Data Space (EHDS), which the European Commission will define in a specific legal framework until the end of 2021. Aim of the EHDS is to facilitate the sharing and uses of Real World Health Data within and especially beyond healthcare.In this context, DigitalHealthEurope presents 32 actionable recommendations addressing three significant transition challenges for the EHDS:From privacy protection to citizen protection.From citizen as data subject to citizen as key change agent in the health data ecosystem.From policy and regulatory frameworks to engagement, adoption and implementation. 











							49						















Empowering citizens and building a healthier society through digital health 











DigitalHealthEurope will providecomprehensive supportto the Digital Health and Care Innovation initiative in the context of the Digital Single Market Strategy. The projects approach involves a number of actions that will boost innovation andadvance the Digital Single Market priorities for the digital transformation of health and care(DTHC), as outlined in the European Commissions 2018on the topic. The priorities concern:

citizens secure access to and sharing of health data across borders
better data to advance research, disease prevention and personalised health and care
digital tools for citizen empowerment and person-centred care.

To achieve thesethree priorities, the project work plan offers two forms of support.Together, they will forma common vision of EU coordination and support for DTHC beyond 2020.
Support to large scale deployment of digital solutions for person-centred integrated care
DigitalHealthEuropes main objective thedeployment of digital solutionsfor person-centred integrated care. Assessment tools will be used to identify, analyse and selectsuccessful initiativeswhich arehighly impactful and replicable. DigitalHealthEurope will also provide structured advice onEU funding instruments and financing sources. The selected initiatives will have the opportunity to pursue replication and scaling-up. This will be done with the aid of instruments such asand a.More than 45 twinningsbetween more than 90 organisations will be funded. Adeployment support servicewill includeguidelines, checklists and documented successful approaches. These results will contribute tocapacity building. They will help define thebuilding blocksfor the scaling-up of innovative practices. Thesenew resourceswill be widely disseminated. The aim is to encourage even wider uptake oftwinned digital innovationand theassimilation of lessons learned.
Support to DTHC innovation through collaboration in multi-stakeholder communities
DigitalHealthEurope will also facilitate the creation of ashared platformfor. These communities directly address the three priorities.Each of the communities will carry out concrete activities. With the help of associated experts and contributors, they will providekey DHE outcomes such as white papers, guidelines and policy recommendations.
DigitalHealthEurope will ensure themutual flow of informationbetween the two support activities.The results will be channelled into draftinga roadmap, advice and recommended actions. 


























Latest News 





























 



							There are many digitally enabled health and care solutions and practices developed as part of Europe research & innovation projects, national funding programmes, private undertakings, competitions, etc., but it is oftentimes difficult to get						

































 



							Dementia and moderate cognitive impairment are some of the most common challenges faced by older citizens. Kwido Mementia has become a result of the twinning cooperation between Ideable Solutions, Spain (twinning originator) and the						

































 



							Video explaining the adoption of the Social-Health Folder twinning aimed at digitalisation of healthcare administration and management.						

































 



							During the course of its action, the Digital Health Europe (DHE) project has produced numerous valuable outputs, including white papers and recommendations, the DHE forum, collection of useful resources for people working in the						












































Tweets 



  























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent


















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 



























Contact 













 










First Name (required)


Surname (required)


Academic Title


Organisation


Position within organisation


e-Mail Address (required)


Subject (required)


Message (required)


You agree that your data will be used to process your request. For more information and disclaimer, see the 






























						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 




















Privacy Statement (EU) 


This privacy statement was last updated on October 31, 2022 and applies to citizens and legal permanent residents of the European Economic Area and Switzerland.In this privacy statement, we explain what we do with the data we obtain about you via . We recommend you carefully read this statement. In our processing we comply with the requirements of privacy legislation. That means, among other things, that:
we clearly state the purposes for which we process personal data. We do this by means of this privacy statement;
we aim to limit our collection of personal data to only the personal data required for legitimate purposes;
we first request your explicit consent to process your personal data in cases requiring your consent;
we take appropriate security measures to protect your personal data and also require this from parties that process personal data on our behalf;
we respect your right to access your personal data or have it corrected or deleted, at your request.
If you have any questions, or want to know exactly what data we keep of you, please contact us.1. Purpose, data and retention periodWe may collect or receive personal information for a number of purposes connected with our business operations which may include the following: (click to expand)1.1 Contact - Through phone, mail, email and/or webformsFor this purpose we use the following data:A first and last nameA home or other physical address, including street name and name of a city or townAn email addressIP AddressInternet activity information, including, but not limited to, browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer's interaction with an Internet Web site, application, or advertisementThe basis on which we may process these data is:Retention periodWe retain this data until the service is terminated.1.2 NewslettersFor this purpose we use the following data:A first and last nameA home or other physical address, including street name and name of a city or townAn email addressIP AddressGeolocation dataA telephone numberThe basis on which we may process these data is:Retention periodWe retain this data until the service is terminated.1.3 Compiling and analyzing statistics for website improvement.For this purpose we use the following data:IP AddressGeolocation dataInternet activity information, including, but not limited to, browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer's interaction with an Internet Web site, application, or advertisementThe basis on which we may process these data is:Retention periodWe retain this data until the service is terminated.2. CookiesOur website uses cookies. For more information about cookies, please refer to our .3. Disclosure practicesWe disclose personal information if we are required by law or by a court order, in response to a law enforcement agency, to the extent permitted under other provisions of law, to provide information, or for an investigation on a matter related to public safety.If our website or organisation is taken over, sold, or involved in a merger or acquisition, your details may be disclosed to our advisers and any prospective purchasers and will be passed on to the new owners.4. SecurityWe are committed to the security of personal data. We take appropriate security measures to limit abuse of and unauthorised access to personal data. This ensures that only the necessary persons have access to your data, that access to the data is protected, and that our security measures are regularly reviewed.5. Third-party websitesThis privacy statement does not apply to third-party websites connected by links on our website. We cannot guarantee that these third parties handle your personal data in a reliable or secure manner. We recommend you read the privacy statements of these websites prior to making use of these websites.6. Amendments to this privacy statementWe reserve the right to make amendments to this privacy statement. It is recommended that you consult this privacy statement regularly in order to be aware of any changes. In addition, we will actively inform you wherever possible.7. Accessing and modifying your dataIf you have any questions or want to know which personal data we have about you, please contact us. You can contact us by using the information below. You have the following rights:
You have the right to know why your personal data is needed, what will happen to it, and how long it will be retained for.
Right of access: You have the right to access your personal data that is known to us.
Right to rectification: you have the right to supplement, correct, have deleted or blocked your personal data whenever you wish.
If you give us your consent to process your data, you have the right to revoke that consent and to have your personal data deleted.
Right to transfer your data: you have the right to request all your personal data from the controller and transfer it in its entirety to another controller.
Right to object: you may object to the processing of your data. We comply with this, unless there are justified grounds for processing.
Please make sure to always clearly state who you are, so that we can be certain that we do not modify or delete any data of the wrong person.8. Submitting a complaintIf you are not satisfied with the way in which we handle (a complaint about) the processing of your personal data, you have the right to submit a complaint to the Data Protection Authority.9. Contact detailsempirica Gesellschaft fr Kommunikations- und Technologieforschung mbH
        Oxfordstr. 2
D-53111 Bonn
Germany
        Germany
        Website:  
        Email: info@empirica.com 
        Phone number: +49-228-98530-0

















						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						










Manage Cookie Consent






To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.





Functional



Functional

								Always active							






The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.





Preferences


Preferences







The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.





Statistics


Statistics







The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.





Marketing


Marketing







The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.












Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences









Manage consent
















































































































































































 

 Menu




































 




















Cookie Policy (EU) 


This Cookie Policy was last updated on October 31, 2022 and applies to citizens and legal permanent residents of the European Economic Area and Switzerland.1. IntroductionOur website,  (hereinafter: "the website") uses cookies and other related technologies (for convenience all technologies are referred to as "cookies"). Cookies are also placed by third parties we have engaged. In the document below we inform you about the use of cookies on our website.2. What are cookies?A cookie is a small simple file that is sent along with pages of this website and stored by your browser on the hard drive of your computer or another device. The information stored therein may be returned to our servers or to the servers of the relevant third parties during a subsequent visit.3. What are scripts?A script is a piece of program code that is used to make our website function properly and interactively. This code is executed on our server or on your device.4. What is a web beacon?A web beacon (or a pixel tag) is a small, invisible piece of text or image on a website that is used to monitor traffic on a website. In order to do this, various data about you is stored using web beacons.5. Cookies5.1 Technical or functional cookiesSome cookies ensure that certain parts of the website work properly and that your user preferences remain known. By placing functional cookies, we make it easier for you to visit our website. This way, you do not need to repeatedly enter the same information when visiting our website and, for example, the items remain in your shopping cart until you have paid. We may place these cookies without your consent.5.2 Statistics cookiesWe use statistics cookies to optimise the website experience for our users. With these statistics cookies we get insights in the usage of our website.We ask your permission to place statistics cookies.5.3 Marketing/Tracking cookiesMarketing/Tracking cookies are cookies or any other form of local storage, used to create user profiles to display advertising or to track the user on this website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.5.4 Social mediaOn our website, we have included content from Twitter to promote web pages (e.g. like, pin) or share (e.g. tweet) on social networks like Twitter. This content is embedded with code derived from Twitter and places cookies. This content might store and process certain information for personalised advertising.Please read the privacy statement of these social networks (which can change regularly) to read what they do with your (personal) data which they process using these cookies. The data that is retrieved is anonymised as much as possible. Twitter is located in the United States.6. Placed cookies

Google reCAPTCHA
Functional, Marketing/Tracking
Consent to service google-recaptcha



Usage
We use Google reCAPTCHA for spam prevention. 


Sharing data
For more information, please read the .


Functional

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Provide spam protection

Marketing/Tracking

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Read and filter requests from bots

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Read and filter requests from bots

Name



Expiration

persistent

Function

Read and filter requests from bots




Elementor
Statistics (anonymous)
Consent to service elementor



Usage
We use Elementor for content creation. 


Sharing data
This data is not shared with third parties.


Statistics (anonymous)

Name



Expiration

persistent

Function

Store performed actions on the website




WordPress
Functional
Consent to service wordpress



Usage
We use WordPress for website development. 


Sharing data
This data is not shared with third parties.


Functional

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Read if cookies can be placed

Name



Expiration

persistent

Function

Store logged in users

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Store language settings




Matomo
Statistics (anonymous), Functional
Consent to service matomo



Usage
We use Matomo for website statistics. 


Sharing data
This data is not shared with third parties.


Statistics (anonymous)

Name



Expiration

13 months

Function

Store a unique user ID

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Store a unique session ID

Name



Expiration

6 months

Function

Store referrer ID's

Functional

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Provide fraud prevention




Complianz
Functional
Consent to service complianz



Usage
We use Complianz for cookie consent management. 


Sharing data
This data is not shared with third parties.For more information, please read the .


Functional

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store if a message has been dismissed

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store accepted cookie policy ID

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Read to determine which cookie banner to show

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store cookie consent preferences

Name



Expiration

365 days

Function

Store if the cookie banner has been dismissed




YouTube
Marketing/Tracking, Functional
Consent to service youtube



Usage
We use YouTube for video display. 


Sharing data
For more information, please read the .


Marketing/Tracking

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Store location data

Name



Expiration

session

Function

Store and track interaction

Name



Expiration

8 months

Function

Store user preferences

Functional

Name



Expiration

6 months

Function

Provide bandwidth estimations




Twitter
Functional, Marketing/Tracking
Consent to service twitter



Usage
We use Twitter for display of recent social posts and/or social share buttons. 


Sharing data
For more information, please read the .


Functional

Name



Expiration

persistent

Function

Provide load balancing functionality

Marketing/Tracking

Name



Expiration

persistent

Function

Store if the user has seen embedded content




Miscellaneous
Purpose pending investigation
Consent to service miscellaneous



Usage



Sharing data
Sharing of data is pending investigation


Purpose pending investigation

Name



Expiration



Function



Name

mtm_cookie_consent

Expiration



Function



Name

acf

Expiration



Function



Name

wpEmojiSettingsSupports

Expiration



Function



Name

e_kit-elements-defaults

Expiration



Function



Name

926llh13

Expiration



Function



Name

7yijv1ne

Expiration



Function



Name

1okdbliv

Expiration



Function



Name

kftq6zsi

Expiration



Function



Name

l6h13mtx

Expiration



Function




7. ConsentWhen you visit our website for the first time, we will show you a pop-up with an explanation about cookies. As soon as you click on "Save preferences", you consent to us using the categories of cookies and plug-ins you selected in the pop-up, as described in this Cookie Policy. You can disable the use of cookies via your browser, but please note that our website may no longer work properly.7.1 Manage your consent settingsYou have loaded the Cookie Policy without javascript support.On AMP, you can use the manage consent button on the bottom of the page.8. Enabling/disabling and deleting cookiesYou can use your internet browser to automatically or manually delete cookies. You can also specify that certain cookies may not be placed. Another option is to change the settings of your internet browser so that you receive a message each time a cookie is placed. For more information about these options, please refer to the instructions in the Help section of your browser.Please note that our website may not work properly if all cookies are disabled. If you do delete the cookies in your browser, they will be placed again after your consent when you visit our website again.9. Your rights with respect to personal dataYou have the following rights with respect to your personal data:
You have the right to know why your personal data is needed, what will happen to it, and how long it will be retained for.
Right of access: You have the right to access your personal data that is known to us.
Right to rectification: you have the right to supplement, correct, have deleted or blocked your personal data whenever you wish.
If you give us your consent to process your data, you have the right to revoke that consent and to have your personal data deleted.
Right to transfer your data: you have the right to request all your personal data from the controller and transfer it in its entirety to another controller.
Right to object: you may object to the processing of your data. We comply with this, unless there are justified grounds for processing.
To exercise these rights, please contact us. Please refer to the contact details at the bottom of this Cookie Policy. If you have a complaint about how we handle your data, we would like to hear from you, but you also have the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority (the Data Protection Authority).10. Contact detailsFor questions and/or comments about our Cookie Policy and this statement, please contact us by using the following contact details:empirica Gesellschaft fr Kommunikations- und Technologieforschung mbH
Oxfordstr. 2
D-53111 Bonn
Germany
Germany
                    Website: 
                    Email: info@empirica.com
Phone number: +49-228-98530-0This Cookie Policy was synchronised with  on May 3, 2024.

















						back to top					






							This project has received fundingfrom the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 826353.						







 




 




							empirica  2024.  All rights reserved.						

















































