HONEUR (Haematology Outcomes Network in Europe) is a Janssen-led initiative that is all about collaboration. Rather than creating a central data repository, the HONEUR federated data network enables partners to keep full control over their own data and the analysis. By bringing together data centres in Europe to scale up research on haematological malignancies, it aspires to create a future where patients with haematological malignancies across Europe have improved outcomes because the power of Real-World Data and Real-World Evidence is being maximised.
With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centres across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence.
We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registries and other sources.
The HONEUR portal is the core of the network. Its a secured environment that is only accessible to HONEUR partners. It offers different functionalities to the partners. A data catalogue contains a description of various data sets of data partners and how to engage with them. The study catalogue is the central place where a study request gets initiated, and where the analysis script and eventually aggregated results will be stored (visible to study participants only). No patient-level data are stored on the HONEUR portal  only aggregated results or a research question.

CDM = OMOP


                                                    Navigation                                                                                     Home                        Accelerated real-world data analysis and evidence sharing Federated network connectivity, data always stays local                           What is HONEUR? Treating patients with haematological malignancies has progressed significantly in recent years, but extensive scientific research is still needed. Fortunately, theres a huge untapped resource that can help: Real-World Data (RWD). At Janssen, we believe RWD has the transformational potential to help us develop new tools and evidence-based therapies, and evolve from disease-centred to patient-centred models of healthcare. The more widespread acceptance and usage of RWD is one of the key drivers in moving to a value-based healthcare system. Value-based healthcare seeks better population health outcomes and improved patient experiences, while promoting sustainability through increased efficiency and reduced health spending overall. Better collaboration is the key to unlocking RWDs potential  uniting data partners, leveraging complementary strengths, and standardising data to a common data model. To this end, HONEUR (Haematological Outcomes Network in Europe) was created to increase knowledge and understanding of haematological malignancies and improve outcomes for patients across Europe. We invite you to join HONEUR and become part of a federated network that is collaborating to unlock the transformational potential of Real-World Data (RWD). Together, we can help create a faster, more efficient European research environment that better shares and manages Real-World Evidence (RWE) generated from RWD.                           Our mission With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centres across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. Our approach We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registries and other sources.                               Welcome to HONEUR         What HONEUR Is About                            PHDE/NPR/0918/00086                          Data partner benefits    Collaboration with full data control  data always stays local    Strengthened ability to perform high quality research as part of a federated network    Compensation of efforts based on Fair Market Value    Increased data value via expanded authorship in publications and the possibility of sponsored studies    Access to more than 55,000 data sets of patients with MM/CLL/AML    Participation in a network that is pioneering data management and analysis    Improved understanding of how patients are treated in the real world                          ITEM CODE: RF-251517 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARY 2023                                                       HONEUR Network Data Partners                    Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Home                        Accelerated real-world data analysis and evidence sharing Federated network connectivity, data always stays local                           What is HONEUR? Treating patients with haematological malignancies has progressed significantly in recent years, but extensive scientific research is still needed. Fortunately, theres a huge untapped resource that can help: Real-World Data (RWD). At Janssen, we believe RWD has the transformational potential to help us develop new tools and evidence-based therapies, and evolve from disease-centred to patient-centred models of healthcare. The more widespread acceptance and usage of RWD is one of the key drivers in moving to a value-based healthcare system. Value-based healthcare seeks better population health outcomes and improved patient experiences, while promoting sustainability through increased efficiency and reduced health spending overall. Better collaboration is the key to unlocking RWDs potential  uniting data partners, leveraging complementary strengths, and standardising data to a common data model. To this end, HONEUR (Haematological Outcomes Network in Europe) was created to increase knowledge and understanding of haematological malignancies and improve outcomes for patients across Europe. We invite you to join HONEUR and become part of a federated network that is collaborating to unlock the transformational potential of Real-World Data (RWD). Together, we can help create a faster, more efficient European research environment that better shares and manages Real-World Evidence (RWE) generated from RWD.                           Our mission With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centres across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. Our approach We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registries and other sources.                               Welcome to HONEUR         What HONEUR Is About                            PHDE/NPR/0918/00086                          Data partner benefits    Collaboration with full data control  data always stays local    Strengthened ability to perform high quality research as part of a federated network    Compensation of efforts based on Fair Market Value    Increased data value via expanded authorship in publications and the possibility of sponsored studies    Access to more than 55,000 data sets of patients with MM/CLL/AML    Participation in a network that is pioneering data management and analysis    Improved understanding of how patients are treated in the real world                          ITEM CODE: RF-251517 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARY 2023                                                       HONEUR Network Data Partners                    Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023               


Navigation














Navigation

















Welcome










Enter Username & Password




Username:








Password:



CAPSLOCK key is turned on!




















For security reasons, please  and exit your web browser when you are done accessing services that require authentication!

WARNING NOTICE:
This system is restricted solely to Johnson & Johnson users for authorized business only. Any actual or attempted unauthorized access, use or modification of this system is strictly prohibited by Johnson & Johnson. Unauthorized users are subject to Johnson & Johnson disciplinary proceedings and/or criminal and civil penalties under state, federal or other applicable domestic and foreign laws. The use of this system may be monitored and recorded for administrative and security reasons. If such monitoring and/or recording reveal possible evidence of criminal activity, Johnson & Johnson may provide the evidence of such monitoring to law enforcement officials.



























This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: March, 2021







                                                    Navigation                                                                                     Home                        Accelerated real-world data analysis and evidence sharing Federated network connectivity, data always stays local                           What is HONEUR? Treating patients with haematological malignancies has progressed significantly in recent years, but extensive scientific research is still needed. Fortunately, theres a huge untapped resource that can help: Real-World Data (RWD). At Janssen, we believe RWD has the transformational potential to help us develop new tools and evidence-based therapies, and evolve from disease-centred to patient-centred models of healthcare. The more widespread acceptance and usage of RWD is one of the key drivers in moving to a value-based healthcare system. Value-based healthcare seeks better population health outcomes and improved patient experiences, while promoting sustainability through increased efficiency and reduced health spending overall. Better collaboration is the key to unlocking RWDs potential  uniting data partners, leveraging complementary strengths, and standardising data to a common data model. To this end, HONEUR (Haematological Outcomes Network in Europe) was created to increase knowledge and understanding of haematological malignancies and improve outcomes for patients across Europe. We invite you to join HONEUR and become part of a federated network that is collaborating to unlock the transformational potential of Real-World Data (RWD). Together, we can help create a faster, more efficient European research environment that better shares and manages Real-World Evidence (RWE) generated from RWD.                           Our mission With HONEUR, we have created a secure, collaborative platform that enables partnering data centres across Europe, including Janssen, to liberate the transformational potential of Real-World Evidence. Our approach We use a holistic approach: combining technology and data science to be able to analyse data from hospitals, registries and other sources.                               Welcome to HONEUR         What HONEUR Is About                            PHDE/NPR/0918/00086                          Data partner benefits    Collaboration with full data control  data always stays local    Strengthened ability to perform high quality research as part of a federated network    Compensation of efforts based on Fair Market Value    Increased data value via expanded authorship in publications and the possibility of sponsored studies    Access to more than 55,000 data sets of patients with MM/CLL/AML    Participation in a network that is pioneering data management and analysis    Improved understanding of how patients are treated in the real world                          ITEM CODE: RF-251517 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARY 2023                                                       HONEUR Network Data Partners                    Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Data partners                         HONEUR data partners      Czech Republic - CLLEAR      The Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients registry (CLLEAR) is a registry hosted by the Czech CLL Study Group and the Czech Leukemia Study group and collects deep insights of medical records of CLL patients from 10 Czech Republic hospitals and centers. Website:         Czech Republic - RMG     The Registry of Monoclonal Gammopathies (RMG), established by the Czech Myeloma Study Group (CMG), is a registry designed for the collection of clinical data from 23 CZ and SK Hematology centers concerning diagnosis, treatment, treatment results and survival of patients with MGUS, MM, and SMM. Website:         France - CHU Dijon Bourgogne     The University Hospital Center of Dijon Bourgogne is a large center that offers public emergency service, diagnosis, care and prevention. CHU Dijon is well-establihed in the provision of first-class and comprehensive hematological malignancy treatment, and is the only center in the Burgundy region that has the capabilities to provide heavy therapy treatment for certain blood diseases. Website:         France - CHU Lille     With nearly 16,000 professionals and being made up of 13 establishments, the Lille University Hospital Center is one of the largest public health establishments in Northern Europe. CHU Lille is committed to scientific excellence in the service of innovation, progress and the transformation of practices and organizations, and focuses on various research areas, including cancer research. Website:         France - CHU Montpellier     CHU Montpellier is a French University hospital center focused on care, teaching and research, but also prevention, health education and the fight against social exclusion. It is organized around 13 university hospital centers grouping all medical and surgical specialties and spread over several geographical sites north-east of Montpellier. Website:         France - CHU de Nice     The hematology department of CHU Nice specializes in the management of blood and lymph node disorders, including cancers. It develops recourse activities such as allogeneic and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, intensive chemotherapy, and clinical research, allowing for access to innovative treatments.        France - Myelomatoul/Oncopole Toulouse     The IUCT Oncopole comprises the Institut Claudius Regaud, a cancer center, and several teams from Toulouse University Hospital Center. The two institutions offer the expertise of 1500 professionals specialized in oncology on the same site. The site specializes in a variety of rare and complex diseases, including haematological cancers, and has a large medical database on various blood cancers. Website:         Germany - iOMEDICO     iOMEDICO is a German clinical research institute and clinical research organization that works with a large, intersectoral network of hospitals and private clinics in Germany, and specializes in interventional and real-world data studies in oncology and hematology. HONEUR works with two of iOMEDICO's registry platforms that predominantly collect longitudinal data on myeloma and lymphoma patients. Website:         Germany - MV-Zentrum fr Onkologie und Hmatologie     Since it was founded in 1997, Oncology at Sachsenring has built up a close network of cooperation partners and its own study center. The oncologists at the MVZ Study Center Cologne are committed to holistic treatment of a malignant disease and are therefore the primary contact for all aspects of cancer. In the spirit of "holistic care", Oncology Cologne have therefore developed some additional offers, which include social counseling, psychosocial care, nutritional therapy, sports offers and others. Furthermore, oncology Cologne works very closely in various tumor conferences with several hospitals and all-important specialist disciplines. Website:         Germany - TriNetX Oncology GmbH     TriNetX Oncology GmbH collaborates with renowned medical experts and pharmaceutical leaders to generate fit-for-purpose database specifications to match the desired study objectives scoping for oncology and rare disease indications. By gathering complete, representative, and high-quality data, TherapyMonitor reflects the variety of cancer care across the continent. Website:         Germany - Uniklinikum Wrzburg     The University Hospital Wrzburg> is a pioneer in medical care, research and teaching. Their hematology department is very research-oriented, and focuses on the development of new therapeutic approaches. With their Multiple Myeloma sstudy group that consists of more than 2500 patients, they are partiuclarly strong in Multiple Myeloma research. Website:         Italy - ASST Ovest Milanese     The Hospital Healthcare company Ovest Milanese is a public organization that includes 4 entities in an area near Milan. Its Division of Hematology, placed in the new Hospital Legnano can count on a group of experts with a well-proven track record in a variety of onco-haematological disease, such as myeloma, lymphomas, and leukemia. It collaborates within national and international networks and actively participates in research projects and trials mainly in lymphomas and myelomas.        Italy - Fondazione IRCCS Ca Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico     The Hematology department at Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico of Milan specialises in the clinical management of benign and malignant hematology disorders. Within the largest public research hospital in Italy, the hematology department performs basic, translational and clinical research in myeloma, myeloid, and lymphoid malignancies, with a special focus on disease pathogenesis and genomic predictors of clinical outcomes.        Italy - IRST of Meldola     The Romagnolo Institute for the Study of Tumors "Dino Amadori" - IRST is a center of excellence entirely dedicated to treatment, research and training in the oncology field. Since its inauguration in 2007, IRST IRCCS has broken new ground in multiple areas of cancer research, with clinical, research programs, and high-level training and education initiatives. The center has a strong interest in hematological research and collects medical patient records on a variety of blood cancers. Website:          Kazakhstan - The Kazakh Institute of Oncology and Radiology     The Kazakh Research Institute of Oncology & Radiology is responsible for all cancer control programs in Kazakhstan. The institute provides a multidisciplinary approach to cancer treatment, education and training. They play a big role in cancer policy in Kazakhstan. Website:         Spain - Fundaci Institut Hospital Del Mar dInvestigacions Mdiques (IMIM)     IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute) is a research-focused institute that consists of 60 research groups, of which two are specifically focused on haematological (lymphoid and myeloid) research. They collect patient data on a variety of haematological malignancies, with a predominant focus on lymphomas. The hospital is one of the biggest sites in Spain in eHealth research, which is also actively contributing to other projects such as EHDEN and HARMONY. Website:         Spain - Instituto de Investigacin Sanitaria (IIS) La Fe     Health Research Institute Hospital La Fe is a public sector initiative made up of 6 entities within the Valencia region. Its Hematology Research Group has a well-proven track record, collaborates with a variety of national and international partners on especially leukemia research projects. Website:         Spain - Fundacin Instituto de Investigacin Sanitaria (IIS) Aragn     Lozano Blesa University Hospital is part of IIS Aragn, a Health Research Institute for the Health Department of the Aragn regional Government. The Lozano Blesa Hematology Study Group focuses on hematoncology malignancies and iomunotherapy in translational lymphoma research. Website:         Spain - Hospital Universitario 12 Octubre     The Research Institute Hospital 12 de Octubre is conceived as a functional structure of multidisciplinary and translational biomedical research focused on basic, clinical, epidemiological and health service research. Website:         Israel - Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Centre Ichilov Hospital     Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center's division of hematology provides expert care for patients with a variety of blood disorders, including malignant hematological diseases such as acute and chronic leukemias, MDS (myelodysplastic syndromes), multiple myeloma, and Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and is affiliated with the Sackler Faculty of Medicine of the Tel Aviv University for leading-edge scientific and clinical research and ongoing medical education. Website:         UK - Cancer Centre London     Cancer Centre London (CCL) is at the forefront of innovative cancer care and a recognised Centre of Excellence. The centre has a well-established Haemato-Oncology Unit where they treat a wide range of haematological disorders, including leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma. Website:         UK - University Hospitals Leicester NHS     University Hospitals Leicester NHS is one of the biggest and busiest NHS Trusts in the country, and works with many different organisations throughout the world to push the boundaries of research. They deliver a wide range of Cancer and Haematology National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) studies and are part of the Myeloma UK Clinical Trials Network. Website:         UK - Cardiff and Vale University Health Board     Cardiff and Vale University Health Board includes the University Hospital of Wales and has strong links to Cardiff University. UHW is a large 900 bed teaching hospital in the capital city of Wales which provides haematological cancer care for the surrounding population. UHW has a strong track record in clinical trial and routine NHS care. Website:                              ITEM CODE: RF-243987 | DATE OF PREPARATION: NOVEMBER 2022                        ITEM CODE: RF-402053 | DATE OF PREPARATION: 12 FEBRUARY 2024            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     HONEURs cross-functional team                           HONEURs cross-functional team         EXECUTIVE SPONSOR   Martin Price PhD Outcomes Research, Vice President Health Economics Outcomes Research and Reimbursement EMEA Executive Sponsor     STEERING COMMITTEE     Edmond Chan MD(Res), MSc, MBChB Senior Director, EMEA Therapeutic Area Lead, Hemato Oncology     Kaat Van de Keer MSc Law, LL.M Legal Director     Joris Diels MSc Economics, Head Market Access Analysis and Health Economics Modelling     Tomislav Kamenski PhD Biochemistry, Senior Director, EMEA Therapy Area Market Access Leader, Hematology           HONEUR CORE TEAM     Kristina Bardenheuer MSc Epidemiology, Project Lead HONEUR     Michel Van Speybroeck MSc, Bioengineering, Director Data Science     Wout Vekemans MSc Computer Science, Product Manager HONEUR     Cristian Benza MD, Medical Affairs Director     Solenn Salaun MSc Management Sciences, IT Project Manager       MEDICAL AFFAIRS TEAM     Traugott Gruppe MD, PhD, Regional Medical Affairs Director Haemato-Oncology EMEA     Mark Graham PhD Cardiology, EMEA Medical Director, early portfolio     Claire Albrecht MSc Business Management, Medical Affairs Director EMEA MM     Christoph Tapprich MD, Haematologist, Medical Affairs Director EMEA CLL, NHL        SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS     Dries Van Briel MSc Law, LL.M, Legal Counsel     Nolen Perualila PhD Statistics, HTA Analyitcs and Head Methods     Andrada Tatar MD, PhD, Health Care, Compliance Senior Manager     Yulia Ramodina MSc Law, Privacy, Compliance Manager EMEA                            ITEM CODE: RF-251515 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JANUARI 2023            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     What data partners are saying                         What data partners are saying        "Building on our tradition of high quality standards and excellence in research, 12 de Octubre University Hospital is committed to collaborating in initiatives that offer the best chances for success. Were very confident that becoming a member of the HONEUR network will enable us to maximise the value of our Multiple Myeloma data so that we may ultimately improve healthcare for our patients." Dr. Agustn Gmez de la Cmara, Head of Clinical and Epidemiological Research, Health Research Institute of 12 de Octubre University Hospital, Madrid, Spain            "My colleagues and I at the Leicester Royal Infirmary are passionate about the development and use of database records in haematological disorders, as they provide a source of invaluable information for benchmarking, education and research purposes. Joining HONEUR brings us a big step closer to generating Real-World Data that ultimately has a meaningful impact on patients." Dr. Mamta Garg, Consultant Haematologist, MD, FRCP, FRCPath, Leicester Royal Infirmary, United Kingdom            "Our registry currently includes different haematological malignancies and we are very much looking forward to collaborating with Janssen and other HONEUR members, so that we can make significant inroads in improving treatments for patients with these rare blood diseases." Prof. MUDr. Roman Hjek, CSc. (Haematology), The Registry of Monoclonal Gammopathies (RMG), Czech Republic            "iOMEDICO has been a pioneer in the field of Real-World Data and our vision is to improve oncology by refining RWD methodology and analysis standards. HONEUR offers the unique chance to collaborate with other European researchers while maintaining integrity, security and independence of the databases." Dr. Norbert Marschner, Medical Oncologist, CEO of iOMEDICO            "Ever since its foundation, O.I.s) has been partnering with Janssen in the strive to establish real-world evidence as a crucial source in cancer research. We are proud to support the HONEUR research network with data from a very large and granular Multiple Myeloma Database in Europe. Joining forces with leading hematologists, Janssens team of experts and further research organizations, we are excited to generate significant, current and collaborative insights contributing to the development of multiple myeloma treatments." Lenka Kellermann, Founder and Owner, OncologyInformationService & CancerDataNet, Freiburg, Germany                               ITEM CODE: CP-241082 | DATE OF PREPARATION: JUNE 2021            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     HONEUR materials                         HONEUR materials   HONEUR Brochure  ITEM CODE: CP-164559    Why Join HONEUR?  ITEM CODE: CP-171285 Learn six ways how you can     SAM: 5833 Learn how  can help you optimise the clinical management of your patients.                           ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     How it works                       How it works As shown below, each of the data partners in this example has the applications in place to interrogate their own data or to execute an analysis script that is developed centrally by other HONEUR data partners. Individual sites are not physically connected to a central platform or to each other, but aggregated results can be shared securely through the HONEUR portal (shown below). Data partners can choose to initiate their own questions and participate (or not) in those posed by other data partners. All data are harmonised to the OMOP common data model.                         ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Core principles                        Core principles    HONEUR optimises how Real-World Data are analysed to speed-up the generation of Real-World Evidence    HONEUR data partners share real-world insights that can contribute to improved patient outcomes    HONEUR ensures data partners keep full control of their data at all times    HONEUR respects individual rights and follows all local processes and regulations, e.g., FAIR and GDPR    HONEUR increases the value of your data by enabling its re-use across a wide range of research studies and encourages publishing results                          ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Research questions                       Research questions Data partners can choose to initiate their own questions and participate (or not) in those posed by other data partners. These are just a few examples; as HONEUR evolves, answers to other questions will follow.  What is the overall survival of patients with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma who received at least three prior lines of therapy including proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory IMiD drugs, and CD38 monoclonal antibody treatment? What is the time to next treatment, disease progression and long-term overall survival over a 5-year period in the real world vs. predicted overall survival data from clinical trials? What are the treatment sequences in different countries and associated outcomes, e.g. overall survival?   Multiple Myeloma Cells                           ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     How to become an HONEUR data partner                        How to become an HONEUR data partner HONEURs goal is to develop a network with diverse geographic coverage across Europe.Any registry, hospital, physicians association or scientific institute with patient-level data for the following diseases can become a data partner:    Multiple Myeloma (MM) Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML) Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) Follicular Lymphoma (FL) Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL) AL-Amyloidosis     You can benefit from network participation if you fulfil the following prerequisites:        Patient-level data comprehensive, individual patient history          Disease characteristics confirmed diagnosis and date of diagnosis          Patient baseline characteristics year of birth and gender          Medications lines of treatment with start-stop dates          Outcomes time to next treatment, last follow-up, death     What are the steps to join HONEUR?   1    2 Meeting (phone or in person) for Q&A and to provide more information   3 Data profiling to determine structure (no access to patient data)   4 Signing of Access Agreement   5 Data transformation*, use of HONEUR technical functionalities   6 Access to HONEUR portal; ready to participate/initiate research questions   Timelines The onboarding process can vary, but from initial data profiling (a process that evaluates your data structure, not patient-level data) to signing the Access Agreement can take between 3-6 months. Subsequently, data transformation may take 3-4 months, after which you have access to the HONEUR portal and can initiate/participate in research questions. * In a joint effort between the data partners and Janssen, data is transformed to the OMOP common data model, which was developed by the scientific community of .                        ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Our investment in real world data                        Our investment in real world data Our compensation is based on Fair Market Value (FMV) and consists of three pillars:   SET UP REMUNERATION When you join the network, we compensate your IT-based efforts. Remuneration is dependent on the data model/organisational complexity and IT efforts needed to implement HONEUR at your site.   FEASIBILITY QUERIES We grant an annual remuneration to participate in feasibility queries.   TAKING PART IN RESEARCH QUESTIONS Remuneration is dependent on the data volume, quality and the complexity of the analysis and will be calculated before start of the study.    Blast cells from Acute Myeloid Leukemia                           ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Join the network                        Join the network   Any registry, hospital, physicians association or scientific institute with a data set on patients with  that fulfills certain  can become a data partner.  to learn more and become a data partner. We will enroll you as a data partner in accordance with our  and comply with any and all legal obligations.                             ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Contact                       Contact      For general information: Kristina Bardenheuer, Project Lead  T:         For technical information: Michel Van Speybroeck, Data Science Director  T:         Request Access To request the creation or deactivation of user accounts, please fill in the following PDF. Sign the PDF and send it to                          ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     News                       News                      28/12/2023  We are delighted to introduce to you our 24th HONEUR data partner: ASST Ovest Milanese. The Hospital Healthcare company Ovest Milanese is a public organization which include 4 entities in an area near ...          18/12/2023  We have shared our 2023 Winter HONEUR Newsletter. This edition features:   23 HONEUR data partners, with CHU Nice and Policlinico di Milano as our newest members:...          02/11/2023  In collaboration with our HONEUR Data partner Cancer Centre London, we published an abstract in Blood, entitled An Honeur Framework for Generating Computer Understandable Cohort Definitions from Clinical Trial Protoco...          20/09/2023  Thrilled to share the news of our upcoming fourth HONEUR Forum meeting in the picturesque city of Rome, Italy, on March 20-21, 2024! Calling upon our esteemed HONEUR Data Partners and potential collaborators to be part...          24/07/2023  Our 2023 HONEUR Summer Newsletter has been sent out. In this edition you can find an update on our ongoing and planned evidence-generation projects, a recap of our recent HONEUR Forum meeting in Amsterdam, and other ex...                                     ITEM CODE: RF-247386 | DATE OF PREPARATION: NOVEMBER 2022                        ITEM CODE: RF-272618 | DATE OF PREPARATION: 28 JUNE 2023                        ITEM CODE: RF-402052 | DATE OF PREPARATION: 12 FEBRUARY 2024            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     FAQ                         FAQs                              What is HONEUR?    HONEUR (Haematology Outcomes Network in Europe) is a Janssen-led initiative that is all about collaboration. Rather than creating a central data repository, the HONEUR federated data network enables partners to keep full control over their own data and the analysis. By bringing together data centres in Europe to scale up research on haematological malignancies, it aspires to create a future where patients with haematological malignancies across Europe have improved outcomes because the power of Real-World Data and Real-World Evidence is being maximised.      What is the scope of HONEUR?    The HONEUR platform is designed to connect networks of data sources across Europe, which have data on patients with haematological malignancies. Data always stays protected and network partners keep control of their data at all times. Data partner are able to use new tools to securely analyse large volumes of data on a European scale. This will facilitate the generation of new Real-World Evidence about haematological malignancies, e.g., their possibletrajectories, biological markers of the cancer types and their severity, and the effectiveness of different treatments.      What are Real-World Data (RWD) and Real-World Evidence (RWE)?    Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) definitions:  Real-World Data (RWD) is an umbrella term for data regarding the effects of health interventions (e.g., benefit, risk, and resource use) that are not collected in the context of conventional randomised clinical trials (RCTs). RWD can be obtained from many sources including patient registries, electronic medical records, and observational studies.  Real-World Evidence (RWE) is the evidence derived from the analysis and/or synthesis of RWD.      Why is RWD important?    RWD is very different from clinical trial data as it offers a broader diversity of patients who could develop haematological malignancies. It reflects the wide variation in how diseases like cancer are diagnosed and treated, and usually spans the full disease history from before diagnosis to long-term survival or death. It will include information about how other conditions are being treated in parallel to the cancer, and how these treatments may interact. In summary, RWD complements the results from randomised clinical trials and expands knowledge on treatment outcomes in the real world. It deepens understanding of disease epidemiology and the impact on patients and public health. It also provides insights for improved patient care and benefits future research.      What type of questions can be answered with HONEUR?    The power of HONEUR lies in enabling data analysis on multiple data sets with methodological and statistical possibilities. By analysing data from multiple partners, common research questions on overall survival, time to next treatment, or treatment sequencing can be answered. These are only a few examples - as HONEUR evolves, answers to other questions will follow.      What information is stored on the HONEUR data portal?    The HONEUR portal is the core of the network. Its a secured environment that is only accessible to HONEUR partners. It offers different functionalities to the partners. A data catalogue contains a description of various data sets of data partners and how to engage with them. The study catalogue is the central place where a study request gets initiated, and where the analysis script and eventually aggregated results will be stored (visible to study participants only). No patient-level data are stored on the HONEUR portal  only aggregated results or a research question.      How are data secured and patient privacy protected?    The HONEUR network is based on the principle that data partners have local governance and keep control of their own data at all times. The original source data are transformed at the data partners site to the OMOPcommon data model, which always stays local. If a data partner agrees to participate in an analysis, this would be carried out locally and the results would be posted on the central HONEUR portal. In the base case, all results are being aggregated. In the seldom-seen case that a research question can only be answered with patient-level data (and upon explicit agreement), pseudonymised data can be shared. All data are always protected by encryption.      What remuneration will be covered by Janssen?    Janssen remunerates at Fair Market Valuefor efforts arising from the implementation of HONEUR during the set-up phase as well as for research questions being carried out. Additionally, Janssen pays a yearly fee for performed feasibility queries.                             Didnt find the answer to your question here? Feel free to  We will enroll you as a data partner in accordance with our  and comply with any and all legal obligations.                         ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Privacy policy                       Privacy policy Janssen Phamaceutica N.V. cares about your privacy and wants you to be familiar with how we collect, use, and disclose information. This Privacy Policy describes our practices in connection with information that we or our service providers collect through the website or application (hereinafter the Service) operated and controlled by us from which you are accessing this Privacy Policy. By providing personal information to us or by using the Service, you acknowledge that you have read and understand this Privacy Policy. USE BY MINORS The Service is not directed to individuals under the age of18, and we request that these individuals not provide personal information through the Service. If your child has submitted Personal Information and you would like to request that such Personal Information be removed, please contact us as explained below under Contacting Us. INFORMATION COLLECTION We may ask you to submit personal information in order for you to benefit from certain features (such as newsletter subscriptions, tips/pointers, or order processing) or to participate in a particular activity (such as sweepstakes or other promotions). You will be informed what information is required and what information is optional. We may combine the information you submit with other information we have collected from you, whether on or offline, including, for example, your purchase history. We may also combine it with information we receive about you from other Johnson & Johnson affiliates If you submit any personal information relating to another individual to us, you represent that you have the authority to do so and to permit us to use the information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. SENSITIVE INFORMATION Unless we specifically request or invite it, we ask that you not send us, and you not disclose, any sensitive personal information (e.g., Social Security numbers, information related to racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs, health or medical conditions, sex life or sexual orientation, criminal background, or trade union membership, or biometric or genetic data) on or through the Service or otherwise to us. AUTOMATIC INFORMATION COLLECTION AND USE We and our service providers may collect certain information automatically as you navigate around the Service. Please read the for detailed information about the cookies and other tracking technologies used on the Service. Except where allowed by applicable law, we place cookies after having received your consent through the cookie banner or preference center. The Cookie Policy includes information on how you may disable these technologies. We and our service providers may also automatically collect and use information in the following ways: Through your browser: Certain information is collected by most browsers, such as your Media Access Control (MAC) address, computer type (Windows or Mac), screen resolution, operating system name and version, and Internet browser type and version. We may collect similar information, such as your device type and identifier, if you access the Service through a mobile device. We use this information to ensure that the Service functions properly. IP address: Your IP address is a number that is automatically assigned to your computer by your Internet Service Provider. An IP address is identified and logged automatically in our server log files whenever a user visits the Service, along with the time of the visit and the pages visited. Collecting IP addresses is standard practice and is done automatically by many online services. We use IP addresses for purposes such as calculating Service usage levels, diagnosing server problems, and administering the Service. We may also derive your approximate location from your IP address. Device Information: We may collect information about your mobile device, such as a unique device identifier, to understand how you use the Service. HOW WE USE AND DISCLOSE INFORMATION We use and disclose information you provide to us as described to you at the point of collection. Please see the section entitled Choices and Access, below, to learn how you may opt out of certain of our uses and disclosures. Where required by applicable law, we will obtain your consent to our use of your personal information at the point of information collection. We may also use information from or about you as necessary to perform a contract, to comply with a legal obligation (for example, due to our pharmacovigilance obligations), or for our legitimate business interests. We may also rely on other legal bases, specifically for:  Providing the functionality of the Service and fulfilling your requests.  to provide the functionality of the Service to you and providing you with related customer service; to respond to your inquiries and fulfill your requests, such as to send you documents you request or email alerts; to send you important information regarding our relationship with you or regarding the Service, changes to our terms, conditions, and policies and/or other administrative information.    We will engage in these activities to manage our contractual relationship with you and/or to comply with a legal obligation.  Accomplishing our business purposes.  for data analysis, for example, to improve the efficiency of the Service; for audits, to verify that our internal processes function as intended and are compliant with legal, regulatory, or contractual requirements; for fraud and security monitoring purposes, for example, to detect and prevent cyberattacks or attempts to commit identity theft; for developing new products and services; for enhancing, improving or modifying our website or products and services; for identifying Service usage trends, for example, understanding which parts of our Service are of most interest to users; and for determining the effectiveness of our promotional campaigns, so that we can adapt our campaigns to the needs and interests of our users.    We will engage in these activities to manage our contractual relationship with you, to comply with a legal obligation, and/or because we have a legitimate interest.  Analysis of Personal Information to provide personalized services.  to better understand you, so that we can personalize our interactions with you and provide you with information and/or offers tailored to your interests; to better understand your preferences so that we can deliver content via the Service that we believe will be relevant and interesting to you.    We will provide personalized services either with your consent or because we have a legitimate interest. We also disclose information collected through the Service:  to our affiliates for the purposes described in this Privacy Policy. A list of our affiliates is available at  (click on the link for Form 10K, Exhibit 21, under SEC Filings). Janssen Pharamceutica N.V. is the party responsible for the management of the jointlyused Personal Information; to our third party partners with whom we offer a cobranded or comarketed promotion; to our third party service providers who provide services such as website hosting and moderating, mobile application hosting, data analysis, payment processing, order fulfillment, infrastructure provision, IT services, customer service, email and direct mail delivery services, auditing, and other services, in order to enable them to provide services; and as permitted by applicable law, to a third party in the event of any reorganization, merger, sale, joint venture, assignment, transfer, or other disposition of all or any portion of our business, assets, or stock (including in connection with any bankruptcy or similar proceedings).  In addition, we may use and disclose your information as we believe to be necessary or appropriate: (a) to comply with legal process or applicable law, which may include laws outside your country of residence; (b) as permitted by applicable law to respond to requests from public and government authorities, which may include authorities outside your country of residence; (c) to enforce our terms and conditions; and (d) to protect our rights, privacy, safety, or property, and/or that of our affiliates, you, or others. We may also use and disclose your information in other ways after obtaining your consent to do so. We may use and disclose information we collect automatically as described above, under Automatic Information Collection and Use. In addition, where allowed by applicable law, we may use and disclose information that is not in personally identifiable form for any purpose. If we combine information that is not in personally identifiable form with information that is identifiable (such as combining your name with your geographical location), we will treat the combined information as personal information as long as it is combined. CHOICES AND ACCESS Your choices regarding our use and disclosure of your personal information We give you choices regarding our use and disclosure of your personal information for marketing purposes. You may opt out from:  Receiving marketing communications from us: If you no longer want to receive marketing communications from us on a goingforward basis, you may opt out of receiving them by contacting us via . In your request to us, please provide your name, identify the form(s) of marketing communications that you no longer wish to receive, and include the address(es) to which it/they are sent. For example, if you no longer wish to receive marketing emails or direct mail from us, tell us that, and provide your name and email or postal address.You may also opt out of receiving marketing communications from us by visiting the Service to update your online profile. In addition, you may opt out of receiving marketing emails from us by following the unsubscribe instructions provided in any such message. Receiving reminders from us: If you no longer want to receive medical reminders from us on a goingforward basis, you may opt out of receiving them by contacting us via. In your response to us, please provide your name and the email address or phone number at which you receive reminders from us. Our sharing of your personal information with affiliates and thirdparty partners: If you previously opted-in to receiving marketing communications from our affiliates or third party partners, you may opt out of our sharing of your personal information with those parties for their direct marketing purposes on a goingforward basis by contacting us via.In your communication to us, please state that we should no longer share your personal information with our affiliates and/or thirdparty partners for their marketing purposes, and include your name and email address.  We will seek to comply with your request(s) as soon as reasonably practicable. Please note that if you opt out as described above, we will not be able to remove your personal information from the databases of our affiliates with which we have already shared your information (i.e., as of the date that we implement your optout request). However, we will make reasonable efforts to inform our affiliates of your request. Please also note that if you opt out of receiving marketingrelated messages from us, we may still send you important transactional and administrative messages, from which you cannot opt out. How you can access, change, or delete your personal information If you would like to review, correct, update, restrict, or delete your personal information, or if you would like to request an electronic copy of your personal information for purposes of transmitting it to another company (to the extent these rights are provided to you by applicable law), please contact us via. We will respond to your request as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than one month after receipt. If circumstances cause any delay in our response, you will be promptly notified and provided a date for our response. CROSSBORDER TRANSFER Your personal information may be stored and processed in any country where we have facilities or service providers, and by using our Service or by providing consent to us (where required by law), your information may be transferred to countries outside of your country of residence, including to the United States, which may provide for different data protection rules than in your country. Nonetheless, appropriate contractual and other measures are in place to protect personal information when it is transferred to our affiliates or third parties in other countries. Some non-European Economic Area (EEA) countries are recognized by the European Commission as providing an adequate level of data protection according to EEA standards (the full list of these countries is available. For transfers from the EEA to countries not considered adequate by the European Commission, we have ensured that adequate measures are in place, including by ensuring that the recipient is bound byEU Standard Contractual Clauses, to protect your Personal Information. You may obtain a copy of these measures by contacting our data protection officer in accordance with the Contacting Us section below. SECURITY We seek to use reasonable organizational, technical, and administrative measures designed to protect personal information under our control. Unfortunately, no data transmission over the Internet or data storage system can be guaranteed to be 100% secure. If you have reason to believe that your interaction with us is no longer secure (for example, if you feel that the security of any account you have with us has been compromised), please immediately notify us in accordance with the Contacting Us section below. RETENTION PERIOD We will retain your personal information for as long as needed or permitted in light of the purpose(s) for which it was obtained. The criteria used to determine our retention periods include: (i) the length of time we have an ongoing relationship with you and provide the Service to you; (ii) whether there is a legal obligation to which we are subject; and (iii) whether retention is advisable in light of our legal position (such as in regard to applicable statutes of limitations, litigation, or regulatory investigations). Please note, however, that this is not an exhaustive list of retention periods. Your personal information may be stored for a longer period using the criteria set forth in the first paragraph of this section, especially points (ii) and (iii). THIRD PARTY SITES AND SERVICES This Service may contain links to sites of third parties. This Privacy Policy does not address, and we are not responsible for, the privacy, information, or practices of any third parties, including any third party operating any site or online service (including, without limitation, any application) that is available through this Service or to which this Service contains a link. The availability of, or inclusion of a link to, any such site or property on the Service does not imply endorsement of it by us or by our affiliates. CONTACTING US Janssen-Cilag Limited, located at 50-100 Holmers Farm Way, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 4EG,is the company responsible for collection, use, and disclosure of personal information under this Privacy Policy. If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us via, or please write to the following address: Janssen Pharmaceutica NV Att: Honeur Network Turnhoutseweg 30, 2340 Beerse Belgium You may also contact our data protection officer responsible for your country or region, if applicable, at. LODGING A COMPLAINT WITH A REGULATOR You may lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority competent for your country or region.Please click for contact information for such authorities. UPDATES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY We may change this Privacy Policy. Any changes to this Privacy Policy will become effective when we post the revised Privacy Policy on the Service. Your use of the Service following these changes means that you accept the revised Privacy Policy. We recommend that you regularly review the Privacy Policy when you visit the Service. This policy was last updated on04/09/2020.                         ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Legal notice                       Legal notice All content of this Internet site is owned or controlled by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. and is protected by worldwide copyright laws. You may download content only for your personal use for non-commercial purposes but no modification or further reproduction of the content is permitted. The content may otherwise not be copied or used in any way. The owners of this site will use reasonable efforts to include up-to-date and accurate information in this Internet site, but makes no representations, warranties, or assurances as to the accuracy, currency, or completeness of the information provided. The owners of this site shall not be liable for any damages or injury resulting from your access to, or inability to access, this Internet site, or from your reliance on any information provided at this Internet site. This site is for internet audiences in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Gibraltar, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and Yemen. This Internet site may provide links or references to other sites but the owners of this site have no responsibility for the content of such other sites and shall not be liable for any damages or injury arising from that content. Any links to other sites are provided as merely a convenience to the users of this Internet site. The trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade dress and products in this Internet site are protected in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. No use of any of these may be made without the prior, written authorization of the owners of this site, except to identify the products or services of the company. Any personally identifiable information in electronic communications to this Internet site is governed by this site's . The owners of this site shall be free to use or copy all other information in any such communications, including any ideas, inventions, concepts, techniques or know-how disclosed therein, for any purposes. Such purposes may include disclosure to third parties and/or developing, manufacturing and/or marketing goods or services. The sender of any communications to this Internet site or otherwise to the owners of this site shall be responsible for the content and information contained therein, including its truthfulness and accuracy. This Internet site is provided as a service to its visitors. The site owner reserves the right to delete, modify or supplement the contents of this site at any time for any reason without notification.                         ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023                                                                   Navigation                                                                                     Cookie policy                       Cookie policy This Cookie Policy is designed to tell you about our practices regarding the collection of information through cookies and other tracking technologies (like gifs, web beacons, etc.). The functionalities for which we use these technologies may include the following:  Assisting you in navigation, Assisting in registering for our events, login, and your ability to provide feedback, Analyzing the use of our products, services or applications, Assisting with our promotional and marketing efforts (including behavioral advertising), Offering content of third parties (such as social media content).  Below is a detailed list of the cookies we use, with a description. We classify cookies in the following categories:  Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies  Except where allowed by applicable law, we place cookies after having received your consent through the cookie banner or preference center. You can change your cookie settings per cookie category (except for strictly necessary cookies that are required for the proper functioning of the site) at any time by clicking on the cookie settings button below: Cookie Settings  Links to other websites This site may contain links or references to other websites. Please be aware that we do not control the cookies / tracking technologies of other websites and this Cookie Policy does not apply to those websites. How to Contact Us If you have any questions, comments, or concerns about this Cookie Policy or the information practices of this site, please use the contact information included in our Privacy Policy. Changes to This Cookie Policy If this Cookie Policy changes, the revised policy will be posted on this site. This Cookie Policy was last updated may 2021.                         ITEM CODE: CP-180162 | DATE OF PREPARATION: SEPTEMBER 2020            Hidden                         Follow on           This site is published by Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., which is solely responsible for its content. This site is intended for the use of our visitors in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Last Updated: January, 2023               