IHE is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information.
Vision: Enable seamless and secure access to health information that is usable whenever and wherever needed
Mission: IHE enables health systems and care delivery networks to adopt interoperable digital workflows that support evidence- and value-based health services. IHE develops workflow-based interoperability specifications and provides testing and validation capabilities that support the governance of health IT ecosystems as the foundation for health systems, care delivery networks and industry to improve health outcomes.

IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standards such as DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical needs in support of optimal patient care.
IHE brings together healthcare IT system users and developers to address interoperability issues that impact clinical care.
Education: IHE has created a set of information resources and tools for vendors and users of healthcare information systems to help them integrate systems and share information more effectively.

Resources and Tools









 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 















Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE)


IHE is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standards such as DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical needs in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care providers to use information more effectively.
 and improve the interoperability of healthcare information systems.



























































 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 















Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE)


IHE is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standards such as DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical needs in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care providers to use information more effectively.
 and improve the interoperability of healthcare information systems.



























































 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 









Membership


IHE International is composed of  that are stakeholders in improving the interoperability of health information systems. Member organizations participate in IHE in a variety of ways, including designating representatives to  and  relevant to their interests.
Join over 100 organizations dedicated to improving healthcare system interoperability.
  

Membership Benefits
Your membership supports the following benefits For the health IT community

Free access and use of the 
Free access to information from 
Free access to the  and 
Connectathon and Conformity assessment testing services (separate fee)

For IHE Member Organizations

Recognition on the IHE.net Website and in IHE promotions
Use of IHE membership logo
Access to global membership directory
Access to informative webinars
Participation and voting rights in IHE committees

IHE domain committees
IHE International Board elections
Testing and Tools Committee
Domain Coordination Committee (DCC)
Global Deployment Coordination Committee (GDC)
Marketing and Communications Committee


Advance information on events, conferences and workshops

Most importantly, as a member of IHE International, you are part of a vital organization spanning the globe and the continuum of care. You are an active participant in IHEs pragmatic approach to achieving standards-based interoperability in real-world healthcare solutions. IHEs mission is to build on the foundation we have established to:

Broaden stakeholder engagement
Increase awareness and adoption of interoperability standards, including IHE profiles
Strengthen support for IHE members, committees, and international deployment organizations
Broaden testing services to improve product and deployment success
Enhance IHEs independence, governance and capacity as a financially self-sustaining entity




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 









Benefactors


Why become a Benefactor?
IHE International is dedicated to developing use case-driven, standards-based technical specifications (IHE Profiles) that enable health IT systems to communicate and interoperate effectively. That work is supported by a tiered membership model of stakeholders in health information technology.
By enrolling as a benefactor, your organization will demonstrate its commitment to IHEs mission, independence and sustainability. Benefactor status entitles your organization to the rights and privileges enjoyed by all member organizations, including:

Recognition on the website of IHE International ()
Use of IHE membership logo
Access to global membership directory
Access to informative webinars
Participation and voting rights in IHE committees, including:

IHE domain committees
IHE International Board elections
Testing and Tools Committee
Domain Coordination Committee (DCC)
Global Deployment Coordination Committee (GDC)
Marketing and Communications Committee


Advance information on events, conferences and workshops

Additional Benefactor Facts

Any member organization of IHE International can elect to become a Benefactor
Annual fee of $25,000 for any size or category
Participate as non-voting member of IHE International Board
Placement of organizations logo on IHE Internationals website, publications and regular communication
Support the mission, independence and sustainability of IHE International

Join IHE Internationals initial Benefactors in advancing interoperability across the healthcare ecosystem!
To learn more, contact .
Thank you to our Benefactors!
 



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 









Join


IHE International is an organization that enables users and developers of information technology for healthcare to achieve interoperability of systems through the precise definition of healthcare tasks, the specification of standards-based communication between systems required to support those tasks and the testing of systems to determine that they conform to the specifications. The work is managed by IHE committees and sponsored by various national and international bodies, as described in the IHE Principles of Governance, available at www.ihe.net/governance/.
IHE International is composed of Member Organizations interested in improving the interoperability of healthcare information systems. An organization that becomes a member of IHE International may designate representatives to participate in Domain Committees, National/Regional Deployment Committees and other committees relevant to its interests.
The IHE International Board shall review each application submitted and notify the primary contact regarding approval or rejection of the application within 60 days.
  



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 









Renew





1. Log in to your Member Account by clicking the Member Login button at the upper right corner. If you have forgotten your login information, click the Forgot Password button on the login page. Provide your email address and the system will send you your username and a link to reset your password. (The system will only send email to the primary contact listed for your organization. To change the primary contact, or if you need any help logging in, contact us at )
2. Click the Invoices and Payments tab in your Member Account. The system will take you to the payment page where you can see your dues invoice and pay by credit card. If you have questions about the invoice, or wish to pay by check or wire transfer, please contact us .
While you are in your IHE account, take the time to review your profile information and make sure it is correct and complete. You can also upload an organizational logo file. Your profile information will appear in our IHE Member Listing web page.






















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713





























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 








IHE Certified Professional Program


The IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) provides professional certification, supporting individuals in demonstrating their IHE-related knowledge.






















Overview
The IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) was developed to offer individuals opportunities to prove their knowledge of IHE. Basic information about the organization of the IHE-CPP is provided below.
The IHE-CPP Scheme
The IHE-CPP Scheme is consistent with ISO/IEC 17024, Conformity assessment  General Requirements for Bodies Operating Certification of Persons. The Scheme consists of the following elements:

Process definition

Guarantees quality, transparency, fairness and accountability of the exam operation and certification process


Exam related definitions

Syllabus: Business- and Learning outcomes and content of the exam
Exam questions and passing criteria



The IHE-CPP Scheme is under the governance of IHE International, primarily the which is responsible for reviewing the Scheme (including the syllabus and exam materials, the processes and certification mark) and approving it for use.
The Exam Subgroup is set-up by the Education Committee and is responsible for developing, collecting and maintaining exam questions.
Together with IHE Services, theOperator of the IHE-CPP is responsible for overseeing the organization of examinations by accredited exam providers and offered in multiple formats. It also ensures the operation of the certification process, including registration and invoicing of applicants, issuing certificates, accrediting Training Courses, etc.
The figure below shows the key roles in executing the IHE-CPP.

IHE-CPP process document
A detailed description of the IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) scheme and process definitions is available in the document: IHE Certified Professional Program (IHE-CPP) Process Definition.
Certifications awarded
After successfully passing the examination, participants receive an IHE Certified Professional Certificate for the particular exam taken. For example, those successfully passing the first exam offered, the IHE Foundations Exam, will receive the IHE Certified Professional  IHE Foundations certificate.
This certificate will be issued by theOperator of the IHE-CPP on behalf of IHE International and is globally valid for a designated period that varies by exam. Before a credential expires, certificate-holders may take a re-certification exam to renew it to maintain the certified since status.
Rights associated with an IHE Certified Professional exam
Certification entitled the certified person to display theIHE-CPP logo with the textual expression of the certification achieved (e.g., IHE Foundations) in association with the name of the certified person on:

personal business cards;
personal e-mail- or letters signatures;
organizational staff sections of

web sites;
marketing or sales material;
offers, answers to tenders;
presentations



The set of rights associated with an IHE Certified Professional certificate is described in the IHE-CPP processes document (see chapter IHE-CPP process document).
Taking an exam
Exams are available worldwide and can be booked viaour partner exam provider .
GASQ offers the following methods for taking an exam: 
Exams via remote proctoring


A proctor monitors the whole exam by webcam

Exam must be taken in an empty room on own personal computer


Applicant registers on website and schedules an appointment with a live remote proctor
Appointments are possible all day (24/7)
Payment is done online via credit-card

On-site exams

Individual

Exam are offered by GASQ or in accredited exam centers
Done on-site at the center, personally proctored
Appointments can be individually scheduled
Payment: Via exam center


Group exams

Exams are offered in conjunction with a training and organized by the training provider
Exams are taken as a group (class-room setting)
Payment: Via training provider


Exams at IHE Events

If you organize a local IHE Exam in your region, you might want to offer an exam as well for a service to your local community
If you are interested, please contact: 

We are happy to support you with information material and guidance!





Preparing for an exam
You can prepare for an exam either by self-study or with the help of courses provided by training providers. While attending a training course may improve your chance of success on an exam, training is not a prerequisite. The main source of information in preparing for an exam is the syllabus specific to that exam.
Accredited Training Courses and Providers
The following  have obtained the IHE-CPP Accreditation and are thereforerecommended for preparing to an IHE-CPP exam.








Become an accredited training provider
Training providers interested in accrediting a Training Crouse for an IHE-CPP exam should contact the IHE secretary: .
The requirements and process for accreditation of a Training Course is described in the IHE-CPP processes document (see chapter IHE-CPP process document).


IHE Foundations Exam
Target group
The IHE Certified Professional  IHE Foundations Level Exam is tailored to the needs of professionals in health IT who work with products based on IHE profiles. This includes those employed by healthcare provider organizations or software development companies or working as consultants in systems integration. The certification is designed to reach a broad target group.
Goal
After passing the exam, participants will be able to apply the IHE methodology (ISO/TR 28380) for developing interoperability specifications for an existing healthcare environment. The course will enable participants to acquire the skills needed to identify and use the appropriate existing IHE profiles when faced with a healthcare interoperability project.
Learning Objectives
1. Orientation on the IHE organization
This module covers general information on Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise, its mission and vision, as well as its organizational structure. Furthermore, it demonstrates tasks and responsibilities of IHE internal units and the roles of external stakeholders. IHE specific principles of governance are also described in detail in the chapter.
2. IHE Methodology
This chapter aims to provide information of the main concepts and document structure of IHE Technical Frameworks, as well as the annual IHE review and development cycle used in each of the nine IHE clinical and operation domains.
3. Locating and navigating through IHE resources
IHE offers a large variety of technical documents to support planning and implementation of IT systems in healthcare, as well as a wealth of development and educational materials. This module targets the ability to find the needed information from the available array of options and use it accordingly.
4. IHE Example profiles, base standards, general healthcare IT knowledge
This chapter is designed to provide knowledge and comprehension of the standards for communication among IT systems using IHE profiles. Participants will learn the basics regarding the technical environment of selected IHE profiles and the technologies, standards, and security requirements used in them.
5. Accelerate Health Information Exchange deployment
In addition to technical standards and requirements, legal and organizational issues must be addressed during the integration of processes and IT systems. This module demonstrates the use of IHE Interoperability Use Case Deployment Methodology to support real world deployment.
Exam details
The format of the exam is multiple-choice. The exam duration is 60 minutes, the number of questions is 40. Additional time can be allowed for non-native English speakers.
Validity period of the certificate for this exam: 5 years.
Exam Syllabus
For the detailed Syllabus of the IHE Foundations exam please refer to the .
Accredited Training Courses for this exam
For a list of accredited Training Courses to this exam see chapter Accredited Training Courses an Providers.



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















Webinars



Inside IHE Webinar Series 2020
Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leaders of IHE standards development activities to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholders and prepare developers and implementers to leverage IHE solutions to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Information and registration for upcoming webinars and recordings of past presentations are provided below. Links to previous years webinars are provided in the menu at left.



















Inside IHE: IT Infrastructure (ITI)

Dates and time

TBD


Presenters

TBD

Description

TBD


Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM)

Date and time

July 27, 2020; 10:00 am  11:00 am CT


Presenter

Franois Macary, PaLM Technical Committee Co-chair, PHAST

Description

Overview of available profiles.



Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC)

Dates and time

TBD

Registration Coming Soon
Presenters

TBD

Description

TBD


Inside IHE: Devices (DEV)

Patient Care Device (PCD)

Presenter

Rob Wilder, Senior Product Manager at Spok, IHE PCD Planning Committee Co-Chair

Description

This session will cover the purpose and use of profiles within the patient care device (PCD) sub-domain. Areas of focus will include important device interoperability functions such as the transfer of patient vitals information to their health record, automated programming of infusion pump devices, location services functions with patent care devices, handling of device alarms and wave form communications. All profiles will be covered including PIV, DEC, ACM, MEMLS, MEMDMC, IDCO, RDQ and WCM. We will also cover the value of the NIST testing tools and Rosetta terminology mapping used with these profiles.


Dates and time

Personal Connected Health; Recording will be posted when available

Presenter

Thomas Erickson, MSBA, BSEE HIMSS

Description

Personal Health Devices Observation Upload


IHE Devices: One Domain, Three Communities  Recording will be posted when available

Brief Recap of the re-constituted, re-branded domain
Covers the One Domain  single PC/TC, TF, etc.
Covers the three programs: PCD, PCH & DPI
Covers the value proposition of having all three working together in IHE

IHE-HL7 Gemini Project: Device Interoperability  Recording will be posted when available

Recap Gemini
Brief on the SDPI+FHIR project
Include relationship to the rebranded IHE Devices & (now) HL7 Devices groups + the DPI Program home for the SDPI work


Inside IHE: Pharmacy

Dates and time

TBD

Registration Coming Soon
Presenters

TBD

Description

TBD


Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)

Recording Link
Presenters

TBD

Description

TBD

Inside IHE: Radiology


Presenters

Kinson Ho, Principal Architect, Enterprise Imaging, Change Healthcare
Luciano Prevedello, MD, MPH, Vice Chair, Medical Informatics & Augmented Intelligence in Imaging, the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center
Kevin ODonnell, Sr. R&D Manager, Connectivity, Standards & Integration, Canon Medical Research USA
Christopher Lindop, GE Healthcare
Teri Sippel Schmidt, Adjunct Professor, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University

Description

With the rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) in medical imaging, the ease of integration of these new techniques to existing radiology reading workflow and succinctly integrate the AI results in the reading study context become increasingly critical for their success. In this session, attendees will learn the two new AI related integration profiles, AI Results (AIR) and AI Workflow for Imaging (AIW-I). The attendees will also hear about some upcoming activities related to these new AI profiles.

Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology

Recording Link
Presenters

TBD

Description

TBD






























 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















2014 Webinars



IHE International Educational Webinar |Introduction to the IHE International Public Comment & Call for Proposals Process
Tuesday, June 10, 2014 3:00pm  4:00pm CT
Speaker: Lisa Nelson, MSc, MBA, Principal Consultant Lantana Consulting Group

Join the IHE Internationals IT Infrastructure, Patient Care Coordination, and Quality Research & Public Health domains for an overview on the IHE International Public Comment and Call for proposal processes. By the end of this Webinar, participants will be able to:

Submit a Profile proposal in the upcoming 2015 Call for Proposal Cycle

Whats New in ITI 2014: IHE IT Infrastructure Connectathon and Domain Snapshot
Tuesday, June 17, 2014 9:00am  9:30am CT
Speakers: Gila Pyke, IHE ITI Technical Committee Co-Chair, Cognaissance; Lynn Felhofer, IHE NA Connectathon Technical Manager, IHE USA

By the end of this Webinar, participants will be able to:

Relate products or projects to new and existing profiles using IHE resources
Plan for 2015 North American and European Connectathons using the schedules and materials provided

Update on IHE Lab Activities
Thursday, June 19, 2014 9:00am  9:30am CT
Speaker: Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC
| 
By the end of this Webinar, participants will:Understand how integrating more laboratory functions into electronic data exchange is achieved.

Understand IHE Profiles in use around the world.

HIMSS Interoperability Showcase & IHE NA Connectathon 2015: An Introduction
Wednesday, June 25, 20148:30am  10:00am CT
Wednesday, June 25, 2014 2:30pm  4:00pm CT
Speakers: Sandra L. Vance, MHA, Senior Director, Interoperability Intiatives, HIMSS; Celina Roth, Manager, Informatics, HIMSS

Prepare your team for interoperability testing at the IHE North American Connectathon 2015 and successful demonstration at the HIMSS15 Interoperability Showcase. This presentation is designed to educate new participants on the impetus and structure of the Connectathon and Interoperability Showcase. Learn what it takes to get involved, the benefits of participation, and how to engage through the IHE USA and HIMSS registration process.
To learn more about the IHE NA Connectathon, visit .
IHE Cardiology Domain Update
Wednesday, July 30, 2014 9:00am  10:00am CT
Speakers: Nick Gawrit, Heartbase; Chris Melo, Philips, Antje Schroeder, Siemens Healthcare
|
This session will provide an update on current activities of the IHE Cardiology Domain including an introduction of two new profiles:
Electrophysiology Report Content (Implant/Explant)
Registry Content Submission  CathPCI V4.4
IHE Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Domain Update 2014
Thursday, July 31, 2014 9:00am  10:00am CT
Speakers: Tone Southerland, Standards and Interoperability Architect, Ready Computing; Denise Downing,Perioperative Nursing Specialist, Informatics, Association of periOperative Registered Nurses
|
This session will provide an overview of the IHE PCC domain including current activities and roadmap items. Two profiles developed for Trial Implementation 2015 will be reviewed and along with a white paper.
 Multiple Content Views (MCV)
 Reconciliation of Clinical Content and Care Providers (RECON)
 A Data Access Framework using IHE Profiles (DAF)
IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Domain Update 2014
Friday, August 8, 2014, 10:00am  12:00pm 
Speakers:Michelle Williamson, CDC/NCHS;Vijay Shah, JBS International, Inc.;Johanna Goderre, HHS Office of Population Affairs;Brittani Harmon, CDC;Lori Reed-Fourquet, eHealth Signs;Wendy Blumenthal, CDC; John Eichwald, CDC;Lisa Nelson, MSc, MBA, Lantana Consulting Group;Landen Bain, CDISC; Alana St. Clair, CDISC; Didi Davis, Serendipity Health
 |
This session will provide an overview of the IHE QRPH domain including current activities and profiles developed for Trial Implementation.
10:00-10:05 Introduction  Michelle Williamson
10:05-10:15 Structured Data Capture (SDC) Vijay Shah, JBS International, Inc. Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the Structure Data Capture (SDC) profile that will help understand use structured set of data that can be accessed from EHRs and be stored for merger with comparable data for various purposes e.g. electronic Case Report Form, adverse event reporting, collecting information for determination of coverage, etc. See how SDC Forms can be used to collect information in a more uniform and systemic manner and how that collected data can be submitted to the end system in a light-weight manner keeping the form context information. Discover how using SDC Profile make sharing information across various domains more efficient and more effective.
10:15-10:20 SDC Q&A
10:20-10:30 Family Planning Johanna Goderre, HHS Office of Population Affairs Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the family planning profile that will help providers capture structured data critical for a range of reproductive and sexual health clinical performance measures and how their electronic health record systems can interoperate with quality reporting data systems.
10:30-10:45 Vital Events Reporting Michelle Williamson, CDC/NCHS and Lori Fourquet, eHealth SignsLearning Objective: Attendees will learn about two IHE profiles: Birth and Fetal Death Reporting-Extended (BFDR-E) and Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR) that support pre-population of data from electronic health record systems to forms and enable interoperability with states electronic vital registration systems for birth, death and fetal death reporting to meet Federal, state and local government reporting requirements. The primary driver for implementation is to improve the timeliness, quality and accuracy of vital statistics data that are widely used to monitor and improve the nations health.
10:45  10:55 Healthy Weight Brittani Harmon, CDC;Lori Reed-Fourquet, e-HealthSign Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the Healthy Weight profile that supports capture and communication of information supporting care management and population health monitoring of healthy weight. Flexibility in the capture and communication of structured data allows for multiple implementation approaches to maximize the ability to communicate healthy weight information. This includes support for communication of Occupational Health information and healthy weight risk factors.
10:55  11:00 Cancer Reporting Wendy Blumenthal, CDC Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about the IHE Profile Physician Reportingn to a Public Health Repository  Cancer Registry (PRPH-Ca) that supports implementation of standardized transmission of data about a patients cancer case from an ambulatory healthcare provider EHR to the public health central cancer registry. The primary purpose for implementation is to increase the security, completeness, timeliness and accuracy of cancer surveillance data for improved public health.
11:00  11:15 Early Hearing Detection and Intervention John Eichwald, CDC; Lisa Nelson, MSc, MBA, Lantana Consulting Group Learning Objective: Attendees will learn about a new Hearing Plan of Care profile that will help providers capture hearing screening results and information about the newborn and create a plan of care that provides clinical decision support to clinicians performing follow-up care. See how information captured by hearing screening devices and electronic medical record systems can be used to produce standard Hearing Plans of Care. Discover why using new Hearing Plan of Care standards make sharing information with Public Health and care providers more efficient and more effective.
11:15  11:35 PH Profile Q&A
11:35  11:50 Research Profiles and White Papers Landen Bain, CDISC; Alana St. Clair, CDISCLearning Objective: Attendees will learn about a set of six IHE profiles that were co-developed with CDISC, a Standards Development Organization in the medical research space which has worked with QRPH for a number of years. These profilesCRD, DSC, RPE, DEX, RM  comprise a body of work which CDISC calls Healthcare Link, the intent of which is to create all the capabilities needed for EHR-enabled research.
11:50  11:55 Research Profiles and White Papers Q&A
11:55  12:00 Timeline and Next Steps Didi Davis
IHE Patient Care Device (PCD) Domain Update
Thursday, August 14 3:00-4:00pm CT
Speaker: Jeff McGeath, Sr. Exec. VP  Software Solutions 
| 
This session will provide an update on the PCD Domain activities from the past year. A brief review of the entire PCD Domain capability will be followed by more in depth review of new work efforts that have been accomplished. New topics this year include:

MEMDMC  Equipment Management
MEMLS  Location Services

IHE North American Connectathon 2015: Registration Kick-off
Monday, August 25, 2014 1:00pm  2:30pm CT
Speakers: Elizabeth Peters, MBA, Associate Manager, Interoperability Intitiatives, Celina Roth, Manager, Informatics, HIMSS
 
Prepare your team for the IHE North American Connectathon 2015 and successful demonstration at the HIMSS15 Interoperability Showcase. This presentation is designed to educate new and returning participants on the registration process, key deadlines, and preparations required for system registration opening August 25, 2014. Dont miss out on the largest interoperability testing event in the industry.
IHE Radiology Domain Update
Wednesday, September 3, 2014 10:00am  11:00am CT
Speakers: Christopher Lindop, GE Healthcare; Antje Schroeder, Siemens Healthcare; Brad Genereaux, Agfa Healthcare
 
This session will review the IHE Radiology Profiles which the Radiology Committee is promoting for testing at the IHE 2015 Connectathons. The session includes two new profiles developed for trial implementation this year.

Digital Breast Tomography (DBT)
Mobile access to Health Documents for Imaging (MHD-I)

There will be an open Q&A to allow for questions to help developers and users to understand how to implement and use the profiles in practice.
UNDERSTANDING NEW DIRECTIONS: WHY YOU SHOULD BE INVOLVED?
Wednesday, September 24, 2014 10:00am  11:00am CT
Speaker: Michael Nusbaum, Program/Technical Manager, New Directions Program, IHE USA
Panelists: Alex Lippitt, Celina Roth, Sarah Willis-Garcia

Learn more about New Directions programming, test offerings, and how to get involved.



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















2015 Webinars



IHE International Webinars 2015
The presentations linked below were presented as a series of webinars by IHE domain committees and technical managers in 2015. They provide updates on recently developed IHE profiles intended to help implementers, especially those preparing for IHE Connectathon and Conformity Assessment testing.
IHE Patient Care Coordination (PCC) Domain Update 2015
Thursday, June 11, 2015 11:00 am  12:00 pm CT
Speakers: Tone Southerland, Standards and Interoperability Architect, Ready Computing; Laura Heerman Langford, Director of Nursing Informatics, Intermountain Healthcare

PCC Overview:

Understand PCC vision, mission and strategic goals.
Understand new PCC profiles publishes this cycle.
Understand how to get involved in PCC committee work.

IHE IT Infrastructure Domain and Connectathon Snapshot
Monday, June 22, 2015 12:00 pm  1:00 pm CT
Speakers: Lynn Felhofer, ITI Technical Project Manager; Gila Pyke, IHE ITI Co-chair, Cognaissance 

IT Infrastructure Overview:

Whats new this year?
ITIs families of profiles
How to participate in IHE
IHE International Membership
Planning & Technical Committee
High-level 2016 Connectathon information
Q&A

IHE Eye Care Domain
Wednesday, June 24, 2015 9:00 am  10:00 am CT
Speakers: Don Van Syckle, on behalf of the American Academy of Opthalmology 

Eye Care Overview:

To highlight the new and important developments in the IHE Eye Care Domain.
To provide a high level overview of the new profiles and use cases for IHE Eye Care 2015.

IHE North American Connectathon 2016 and HIMSS16 Interoperability Showcase: An Introduction
Thursday, July 16, 10:00 am  11:00 am CT
 
Overview:

Targeted toward new participants, this presentation will educate potential participants on the impetus and structure of the  and . Learn what it takes to get involved, the benefits of participation, and how to engage throughout IHE USA and HIMSS registration processes. !

IHE Radiology Profiles and Scheduled Workflow Update
Tuesday, July 21, 2015, 10:00 am  11:00 am CT
Speakers: Teri M. Sippel Schmidt, MS, Karos Health; Michael Bohl, MHA, BS, CEP, Radiology Group, PC, SC; Kinson Ho, MMath Architect, Agfa Health; Chris Lindop, GE Healthcare 

Radiology Learning Objectives:
CDS-OAT:

Learn how the use of Clinical Decision Support tools for Ordering Physicians information is used in Radiology and how PQRS legislation is changing in the U.S.
Understand the clinical use cases of where and when clinical decision support may be used when an order is created or changed
Obtain a high level overview of the key technical aspects of the CDS-OAT profile
Learn how the CDS information flows from order entry to reporting and charge posting

WIC:

Learn how to enhance your web / mobile viewer to go beyond just viewing studies
Learn how a client application can use a web API to store captured images that can be integrated with the rest of the image archive
Learn a high level overview of the key technical aspects of the profile

SWF.b Enterprise Identity Option:

The SWF.b Enterprise Identity Option provides a mechanism to reference and remap Patient IDs from different Assigning Authorities across an enterprise
Learn how OP, DSS/OF, Modality, Image Manager and other actors are all affected by this Option

IHE Patient Care Device (PCD) Domain Update
Tuesday, July 21, 2015, 12:00 pm  1:00 pm CT 
Speakers: Monroe Pattillo, IHE PCD Planning Committee Co-Chair, Practical Health Interoperability, LLC 

PCD Overview:

Overview of IHE PCD domain and history
Overview of existing PCD profiles
Current cycle PCD domain activities
Future PCD domain activities

Merger of IHE Anatomic Pathology and IHE Lab Domains: Preparing for the Future of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Wednesday, July 22, 2015, 9:00 am  10:00 am CT 
>Speakers:Mary Kennedy, Director of Clinical Informatics, College of American Pathologists;Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC, Contractor to Association of Public Health Laboratories;Raj C. Dash, MD, Vice-Chair, Pathology IT, Director, Laboratory Informatics Strategy, Medical Director, Laboratory Information Systems, Associate Professor, Department of Pathology, Duke Medicine

Domain Overview:

Identify the scope of practice for anatomic pathology and laboratory medicine
Recognize the similarities across these scopes of practice and the advantages of leveraging existing IHE profiles
Begin to explore the additional efforts required to manage a single unified domain
Gain awareness of profiles available for testing at the 2016 NA Connectathon

IHE Radiology Clinical Decision Support Order Appropriateness Tracking (CDS-OAT)
Tuesday, August 4, 2015, 9:00 am  10:00 am CT
Speakers: Teri M. Sippel Schmidt, MS, Karos Health; Michael Bohl, MHA, BS, CEP, Radiology Group, PC, SC; Jeremy Huiskamp; Julie Pekarek 
 
Updates from the IHE Cardiology Domain
Thursday, September 3, 2015; 9:00 am  10:00 am CT
Speakers: Antje Schroeder, Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair, Siemens Healthcare; Nick Gawrit, Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair, Heartbase; Alan Katz, MD, MS, FACC, FASE, Cardiology Planninecg Committee Co-chair, Vice President, Medical Informatics, Catholic Health Services of Long Island, Director, Cardiac Imaging ST Francis Hospital, and Associate Professor of Medicine, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York; Chris Melo, Interoperability Architect, Philips Healthcare; Charles Thomas, Project Manager, Cardiovascular Information Systems, Regional Heart Center University of Washington; Pamela Heller, Registry and BI Product Development; American College of Cardiology
 
CardiologyLearning Objectives:

Describe the current and recent profiles developed by the Cardiology Domain.
Identify five areas of interest to the Cardiology Planning Committee.
Discover opportunities to collaborate with other IHE Domains, as well as clinical organizations, and medical device vendors.

IHE Pharmacy Domain Update
Wednesday, September 9, 2015; 9:00 am  10:00 am CT
Speakers: Jrgen Brandsttter, MSc, Co-chair PHARM Planning committee, CodeWerk Software GmbH, Austria;Leonidas Tzimis, PhD, Co-chair PHARM Planning committee, EAHP, Greece
 
Pharmacy Overview:
PHARM Learning Objectives:

Understand PHARM vision, mission and strategic goals.
Understand PHARM domains liaison and collaboration with HL7 and ISO.
Overview of existing PHARM profiles and Community and Hospital Pharmacy, including Community Medication Prescription and Dispense, Hospital Medication Workflow, Medication Treatment Plan

Overview of other PHARM domain activities, including Supply Chain, EHIR
Understandhow PHARM work benefits the pharmacists.
How to get involved in PHARM committee work.
IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) Domain Update
Friday, September 11, 2015, 10:00 am  11:30 am CT 
Speakers: Michelle Williamson, RN, MSIS, CPHIT, Co-Chair IHE QRPH Planning Committee, Senior Health Informatics Scientist, CDC/National Center for Health Statistics; Derek Ritz, P.Eng., CPHIMS-CA, ecGroup Inc.; Bob Joliffe, MSc, University of Oslo; Lara Tramontan, PhD, Arsenal.IT; Mauro Zanardini, MS, Arsenal.IT; Lisa R. Nelson, MS, MBA, Lantana Consulting Group; Xidong Deng, PhD, Centers for Disease Control; Lori Reed-Fourquet, eHealthSigns

QRPH Learning Objectives:

Attendees will learn about expressing integrated care pathways (ICP) using the Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) standard and how to employ IHE based HIEs to operationalize ICPs to provide valuable population health outcomes.
Attendees will learn about a new DEX profile option to allow Research, Public Health, Epidemiology or Quality Reporting Organizations to query a clinical community for clinical data in a Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing (XDS) environment by understanding which data types are in which documents.
Attendees will learn about building a standardized infrastructure using IHE profiles to enable exchange of clinical data between healthcare providers and secondary users (such as research, population and health service management, and quality assurance) in a standard, privacy-enabled, reliable and secure way.
Attendees will learn the use case scenarios and challenges for the Public Health Newborn Hearing Screening quality measure and how to employ the profile to produce digital quality measures and the benefits of implementing QME-EH.
Attendees will learn the use cases surrounding aggregate data exchange (ADX) and how to use the profile to define and validate SDMX based jurisdiction-specific metadata using standardized tools and generate schema for ADX data payloads.
Attendees will learn about capture and communication of care management and population health monitoring information for healthy weight and the ability to communicate occupational health information and risk factors for healthy weight.

IHE North America Connectathon 2016: Registration Kickoff
Monday, September 14, 10:30 am  11:30 am CT
. 



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















2016 Webinars



IHE 2016 Educational Series (Domain Updates)












IHE Brazil  IHE International Webinar Series: Introduction to IHE IT Infrastructure Profiles





Leveraging IHE Workflow Profiles to Improve the Clinical Experience




IHE 2016 Educational Webinar Series (Domain Updates)
IHE annually presents a series of free educational webinars. The series will help your organization learn about IHE; engage in IHE development and testing activities; and, leverage IHE solutions to develop and implement interoperable health IT systems.
Cardiology

Topics

Current projects in development by the IHE Cardiology Domain
How to introduce Cardiology profiles in a care organization
ACC Health Policy Statement addressing interoperability and IHE

Speakers

Alan Katz MD
Catholic Health Services of Long Island, New York
Cardiology Planning Committee Co-chair
David Slotwiner MD
Weill Cornell Medical College
Cardiology Planning Committee Co-chair
Nick Gawrit
heartbase
Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair
Antje Schroeder
Siemens Healthineers
Cardiology Technical Committee Co-chair
Paul Dow
American College of Cardiology
Cardiology Domain Secretary
Charles Thomas
Regional Heart Center, University of Washington
Chris Melo
Philips Healthcare
Pamela Heller
American College of Cardiology

Eye Care

Topics

Details of new IHE Eye Care Profiles
Review of established profiles
Understand the goals and current activities of the IHE Eye Care Domain

Speaker

Don Van Syckle
DVS Consulting

IT Infrastructure(ITI)

Topics

IT Infrastructure overview
ITIs family of profiles
Whats new this year
How to participate in IHE
High-level Connectathon overview

Moderator

Lynn Felhofer
IT Infrastructure Technical Project Manager

Speaker

Ben Levy
Corepoint Health

Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM)

Topics

Understand changes to the PaLM Technical Framework (merging Laboratory and Anatomic Pathology)
Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW) final text and other project updates

Speaker

Riki Merrick, MPH
Vernetzt, LLC/Association of Public Health Laboratories

Patient Care Coordination (PCC)

Topics

Describe the history of the PCC domain
Explain the vision, mission, and strategic goals of PCC and its relevance in IHE and health IT
Describe the work accomplished by PCC over the most recent annual cycle
Identify opportunities for your organization to participate in PCC domain activities and understand how to get engaged

Speakers

Tone Southerland
Planning Committee Co-C/hair, IHE PCC
Director of Strategic Consulting, Ready Computing
Laura Langford, PhD, RN
Planning Committee Co-Chair, IHE PCC
Nursing Informatics, Intermountain Healthcare

Patient Care Devices (PCD)

Topics

Update on PCD successes over the last year
PCD plans for next year
Opportunities to participate

Speakers

Monroe Pattillo
Practical Health Interoperability, LLC
IHE PCD Planning Committee Co-Chair
John Rhoads, PhD
Intellectual Property & Standards, Phillips Group Innovation

Pharmacy

Topics

Understand PHARM vision, mission and strategic goals
Overview of existing PHARM Profiles for community and hospital pharmacy, including

Community Medication Prescription and Dispense
Hospital Medication Workflow


Overview of other PHARM Domain activities, including

Supply of Products for Healthcare
Falsified Medicines Directive, Educational Article


How to get involved in PHARM Committee work

Speakers

Leonidas Tzimis, PhD
Co-Chair PHARM Planning Committee
EAHP, Greece
Jurgen Brandstatter, MSc
Co-Chair PHARM Planning Committee
CodeWerk Software GmbH, Austria

Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)

Topics

The interoperability challenges, use case scenarios, technical solutions and benefits addressed by the following QRPH profiles:

Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI)
Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI)
Quality Measure Execution for Early Hearing (QME-EH)
Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR)



Moderator

Laura J. Bright
LJB, LLC
QRPH Planning Committee Co-Chair

Speakers

Amit Popat
Epic
Michelle Williamson, RN, MSIS, CPHIT
Senior Health Informatics Scientist
CDC/National Center for Health Statistics
Lara Tramontan, PhD
Arsenal.IT
Lisa R. Nelson, MS, MBA
Life Over Time Solutions
Lori Reed-Fourquet
eHealth Signs
Vijay Shah
Deputy Director, Health IT Solutions
JBS International, Inc.

Radiology

Topics

Review of 2 new profiles highlighted from last years work.
Radiology Remote Reading Workflow (RRR-WF)
Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Radiopharmaceuticals
IHE-Japans National Extension

Moderators

Mike Bohl
IHE Radiology Planning Committee Co-Chair
Radiology Group, PC, SC
Teri Sippel Schmidt
IHE Radiology Planning Committee Co-Chair
Karos Health, Inc.

Speakers

Charles Smith
Numa Inc.
Jeff Pohlhammer
Philips Healthcare
Kevin ODonnell
IHE Radiology Domain Representative to the IHE International Board
Toshiba Medical Systems
Yasunari Shiokawa
IHE Japan
Toshiba Medical Systems


IHE Brazil  IHE International Webinar Series: Introduction to IHE IT Infrastructure Profiles
Join IHE Brazil and IHE International for a series of three webinars designed to provide an introduction to IHEs IT Infrastructure (ITI) technical framework and widely implemented IT Infrastructure Profiles.
IHE ITI Framework Introduction (Portuguese language only)

Speaker

Marcelo Santos
Philips Research

Introduction of IHE PIX/PDQv3 Profiles

Speaker

Benjamin Levy
Corepoint Health

Introduction of IHE XDS/Document Sharing

Speaker

Daniel Berezeanu
Ready Computing

Leveraging IHE Workflow Profiles to Improve the Clinical Experience
IHE Profiles are the foundation of health IT interoperability, a key to improving the clinical experience for clinical staff and patients. IHE workflow profiles have continually evolved over the past several years as the interoperability market continues to mature. Two workshops will discuss how clinical and vendor implementers can implement IHE workflow-based profiles in their health systems and products and how IHE committee members can participate in authoring workflow profiles.
Profile Authors Workshop

Topics

Connectathon Implications
Profile Content
Document Lifecycle
Cross-Domain Examples
Benefits of Involvement

Speakers

Mauro Zanardini
Chris Pauer
Amit Popat

Implementers Workshop

Topics

Benefits of Workflow Profiles
Types of Workflow Addressed
From a Profile to a Product
Architecture and Planning
Understanding Requirements
IHE Process Profile Review

Speakers

Daniel Berezeanu
Tone Southerland
Chris Pauer




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















2017 Webinars




Inside IHE Webinar Series 2017
Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leaders of IHE standards development activities to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholders and prepare developers and implementers to leverage IHE solutions to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Information and registration for upcoming webinars and recordings of past presentations are provided below. Links to previous years webinars are provided in the menu at left.


















Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM)






Domain Overview







Profiles in Final Text







Profiles in Trial Implementation & Development







Current Projects & Getting Involved





Presenters

Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC
Raj Dash, MD, Professor and Vice-Chair for IT, Department of Pathology and Director, Laboratory Informatics Strategy & Medical Director, Laboratory Information Systems, Duke Health

Description

Understand the scope of the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Domain
Learn what profiles are currently being developed
Learn what profiles are available for testing at the Connectathons in 2017/18 cycle


Inside IHE: Radiology






Intro and MAP Profile







SOLE Profile







REM-NM Profile







RD Profile







WIA Profile (formerly MHD-I




Inside IHE Radiology Slides







Moderator

Mike Bohl, Radiology Group PC SC

Presenters

Kinson Ho, Change Healthcare
Kevin ODonnell, Canon/Toshiba
Rob Horn, Agfa
Teri Sippel Schmidt, Canon/Vital

Description
IHE Radiology will present some recent exciting profiles that are available for trial implementation:

Management of Acquisition Protocols (MAP)  New Supplement published in 2017

The Management of Acquisition Protocols Profile supports the collection of scan protocols from acquisition modalities, their review on a protocol manager and re-distribution to modalities.


Standardized Operational Log of Events (SOLE)  New Supplement published in 2017

The SOLE Profile defines a way to exchange information about events that can then be collected, analyzed and displayed using standard methods.


Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Nuclear Medicine (REM-NM)  Supplement published in 2016

REM-NM addresses tracking, reporting and management of radiopharmaceutical administered dose information in a manner similar to that already adopted for ionizing radiation via the REM Profile.
Results Distribution (RD) Profile sends radiology results, i.e., a radiology report, to existing installed base systems. The results is defined with structured content to support other integrated profile requirements, such as follow-up of non-critical actionable findings.Results Distribution (RD)  New Supplement published in 2017



IHE Radiology will also present some major upcoming changes to existing profiles:

WIA provides image sharing and interactive viewing of imaging studies via RESTful services. It supports different backends such as XDS-I and DICOM/DICOMweb.Web-based Image Access (WIA, formerly known as MHD-I)


Inside IHE: Eye Care






Domain Overview







Unified Eye Care Workflow Profile (U-Eyecare)







Content Profiles (GEE & EC-Summary)







How to Get Involved & Resources





Presenters

Peter Scherer, Chief Information Officer ifa group of companies
Donald Van Syckle,President DVC Consulting, Inc.

Description

Understanding of how eye care information systems (PMS, EMR) acquisition devices and image management systems seamlessly exchange patient identifiers, demographic data, scheduling information, images, reports, post charges, etc. within an eye care workflow scenario.
Understanding how EMRs can exchange information captured during a patients general eye examination, plus the ability to capture/exchange a patients eye care summary.


Inside IHE: Cardiology






Interoperability: Guiding Principles & Needs







Cardiac Workflow Profiles







Cardiac Procedure Note Profile (CPN)







Interoperability & Call for Proposals





Presenters

Jerry Serwer MD, University of Michigan
David Slotwiner MD, Weill Cornell Medical College
Nick Gawrit MBA, heartbase
Chris Melo MS, Philips Healthcare

Moderator:

Paul Dow, MS, American College of Cardiology

Description

Understand activities of the Cardiology domain.
Overview of available profiles including clinical workflow and content profiles.


Inside IHE: Patient Care Device (PCD)






Domain Overview







Profiles







2017 Profile Updates







Get Involved & Resources





Presenters

Monroe Pattillo, Practical Health Interoperability, LLC


Inside IHE:IT Infrastructure (ITI)






Domain Overview & Profiles







How to Participate & Development Cycle







Connectathon High Level Overview





Presenters

Daniel Berezeanu, Ready Computing


Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology






Domain & Committee Overview







Profiles and Technical Framework







Connectathon & How to Participate





Presenters

Mark Pepelea, Ph.D., Philips Healthcare

Description

Become familiar with the structure of the committees in IHE-RO, with the purpose of IHE-RO and with the profiles currently being developed.


Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)






mRFD Profile (Mobile Retrieve Form for Data Capture)







ADX Profile (Aggregate Data Exchange)







FP (Family Planning)







BFDR-E & VRDR Profiles








Moderator

Derek Ritz, ecGroup

Presenters

John Stamm, Epic
James Kariuki, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Bob Jolliffe, University of Osl
Lauren Lemieux, American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists
Lori Fourquet, E-HealthSign, LLC
Alaina Elliott, National Center for Health Statistics

Description
IHE QRPH will present the following profiles:

mRFD (Mobile Retrieve Form for Data Capture)
ADX (Aggregate Data Exchange)
FP2 (Family Planning version 2)
BFDR-E (Birth and Fetal Death Reporting Enhanced)
VRDR (Vital Records Death Reporting)


Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC)






Domain Overview & Existing Profiles







New Profiles







More New Profiles







How to Participate





Presenters

Laura Heermann Langford
Amit Popat

Moderator

Jeremiah Myers, HIMSS

Description

History of the PCC Domain
Vision, Mission and Strategic Goals of PCC and relevance in IHE and Health IT
Accomplishments over the most recent cycle
Identify opportunities for your organization to participate and engage in PCC


Inside IHE: Pharmacy

Please see  in the upper left navigation menu to view the most recent Pharmacy Domain update.

Other Webinars
IHE USA Webinars
Visit the  to see additional webinar offerings on topics such as the IHE North American (NA) Connectathon and HIMSS Interoperability Showcase.

IHE 2017 Eye Care Connectathon




More New Profiles




IHE Discusses Standards with Surescripts




IHE Discusses Standards with Surescripts



IHE Radiology Profiles




IDEP Profile Preview






EBIW Profile





















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















2018 Webinars



Inside IHE Webinar Series 2018
Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leaders of IHE standards development activities to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholders and prepare developers and implementers to leverage IHE solutions to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Information and registration for upcoming webinars and recordings of past presentations are provided below. Links to previous years webinars are provided in the menu at left.



















Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM)






Intro, Mission and Scope







New Lab Trial Implementation Profiles







New Anatomic Pathology Trial Implementation Profiles







Current Projects and How to Get Involved






Presenters

Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC
Raj C. Dash, MD, Director, Laboratory Informatics Strategy, Medical Director, Laboratory Information Systems, Professor, Department of Pathology, Duke University Health System


Inside IHE: Radiology






Intro and EBIW Profile







WIA Profile







WIA Integration with XDS-I or MHD







XDS-I Updates and How to Get Involved








Moderator

Mike Bohl, COO, Radiology Group

Presenters

Mike Bohl, COO, Radiology Group
Kevin ODonnell, MASc, DICOM Standards Committee; QIBA Steering Committee; IHE Board; Senior Manager, Canon Medical Research USA
Kinson Ho, MMath, IHE Radiology Technical Committee Co-Chair, Solution Architect, Change Healthcare

Description

Encounter-based Imaging Workflow (EBIW)  addresses medical imaging performed outside the context of an ordered procedure. The profile integrates the devices to capture appropriate context (patient, encounter, procedure), populate relevant indexing fields, link to related data, and ensure the images are accessible and well-knit into the medical record.
Web-based Image Access (WIA) [formerly known as MHD-I]: defines a query/retrieve mechanism for imaging studies using lightweight RESTful API. The mechanism is agnostic to the image sharing infrastructure. It can be used in the existing DICOM infrastructure as well as XDS/XDS-I document sharing infrastructure (when grouping with MHD or XDS-I).
Import and Display of External Priors (IDEP): upon receiving a scheduled order message, automatically locates, accesses, imports and views priors from outside institutions for direct comparison to a local current study. Specifically this profile discovers both imaging studies and associated reports.
XDS-I.b Update: review several significant updates recently completed for XDS-I.b.


Inside IHE: Eye Care






Intro and Domain Overview







Unified Eye Care Workflow







Unified Eye Care Workflow Technical Details







GEE (General Eye Exam), Other Profiles and How to Participate






Presenters

Abdiel Marin, CEO, EyeMD EMR Healthcare Systems, Inc.
Peter Scherer, Principal at PS IT International

Description

Unified Eyecare Workflow
GEE  General Eye Exam


Inside IHE: Patient Care Device (PCD)






Intro and Domain Overview







PCD Profiles







Updates and Resources






Presenters

Rob Wilder, Sr. Product Manager, Spok

Description

PIV, DEC, ACM, MEMLS, MEMDMC, IDCO, RDQ, WCM, NIST Tools


Inside IHE: Cardiology






Intro and Domain Overview







IHE Japan Projects and Connectathon







Profile Updates







Next Steps for Domain






Moderator

Paul Dow, MSHI, American College of Cardiology

Presenters

Jerry Serwer MD, University of Michigan
David Slotwiner MD, Weill Cornell Medical College
Nick Gawrit, heartbase
Rebecca Baker, American College of Cardiology
Shinichi Nakano, Canon Medical
Takeshi Oozeki, Canon Medical 
Charles Thomas, University of Washington

Description

This presentation will highlight the Cardiac Procedure Note (CPN) profile and the CPN Companion Guide developed to communicate the benefits of interoperability between Cardiac Catheterization Labs, Electrophysiology Labs, and other care teams. Extensions to CPN profile for additional structural heart procedure types will also be discussed.


Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC)






Vision, Mission and Goals







PCC Profiles







How to Get Involved






Presenter

Amit Popat, Epic, Planning Committee Co-Chair, IHE PCC

Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology






Domain and Committee Overview







RO Profiles







How to Participate






Presenters

Mark Pepelea, Ph.D., Philips Healthcare

Description

Current and recent work


Inside IHE: IT Infrastructure (ITI)






ITI Overview and Updates







MHD Profile







mXDE Profile







Document Sharing Overview







ITI Asynchronous AS4 Option










Presenters

Daniel A Berezeanu, Professional Engineer, Ready Computing
John Moehrke, Co-Chair ITI Planning, Light Professional IT Services LLC
Charles Parisot GE Healthcare, IHE ITI Technical Committee Member, IHE Intl Board Member

Description

Domain Overview & Profiles Summary
Mobile access to Health Documents (MHD)
Mobile Cross-Enterprise Document Data Element Extraction (mXDE)
Document Sharing Overview
New Asynchronous AS4 Web Services Option for XCA, XCPD, XDR and XCDR Profiles: To support scaling of document sharing between communities to a large numbers of gateways, Asynchronous Web Services Exchange is critical to realize a more efficient handling of latency and scale.


Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)






SDC Profile







ADX-HIV Content Schema







BFDR-E and VRDR Profile Updates








Presenters

Alex Goal, Senior Analyst, Cancer Care Ontario
Derek Ritz, ecGroup
Lori Reed Fourquet, Consultant, e-HealthSign, LLC
Alaina Elliott, IT Specialist, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NCHS

Description

Structured Data Capture (SDC)
ADX-HIV content schema
Birth and Fetal Death Reporting Enhanced (BFDR-E)
Vital Records Death Reporting (VRDR)


Inside IHE: Pharmacy

Please seeto view the most recent Pharmacy Domain update.



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 















2019 Webinars



Inside IHE Webinar Series 2019
Inside IHE is a regular series of webinars presented by leaders of IHE standards development activities to inform the healthcare community about IHE, engage interested stakeholders and prepare developers and implementers to leverage IHE solutions to achieve interoperability in healthcare. Recordings of past presentations are provided below.

















Inside IHE: IT Infrastructure (ITI)




Presenters

Gregorio Canal
Luke Duncan
Joe Lamy


Inside IHE: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM)


Presenters

Riki Merrick, MPH, Vernetzt, LLC and Association of Public Health Laboratories
Raj C. Cash, MD, Duke

Topics

Overview of the Technical Framework and profiles covered
Current work is the Specimen Event Tracking (SET)
Main focus is a new profile for digital pathology image acquisition (and a white paper to lay out the landscape)


Inside IHE: Patient Care Coordination (PCC)


Presenter

Michael Clifton, Epic

Topics

Review of Assessment Curation and Data Collection (ACDC)  Advancing the interoperability of assessments
Review of CDA Document Summary Sections (CDA-DSS)  Update to include discrete care teams entry templates for CDA
Review of Dynamic Care Team Management

Inside IHE: Patient Care Device (PCD)


Presenter

Rob Wilder, Spok


Inside IHE: Pharmacy


Presenters

Esther Peelen
Michael Tan, Nictiz

Topics

Review of Mobile Medication Administration (MMA)
Review of Uniform Barcode Processing (UBP)


Inside IHE: Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)

Videos





Presenters

Laura Bright
Andrea Fourquet
Alaina Gregory
Lori Fourquet
Jenny Thompson
Derek Ritz

Topics

Overview of IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)
Review of Prescription Repository Query (PRQ)
Review of Vital Records: Birth and Fetal Death Reporting Enhanced Profile and Vital Records Death Reporting (BFDR/VRDR FHIR)
Review of Computable Care Guidelines (CCG)


Inside IHE: Radiology


Presenters

Chris Roth, MD
Kevin ODonnell
Jonathan Whitby
Kinson Ho

Description

Review of Encounter Based Imaging Workflow (EBIW)
Review of Import and Display of External Priors (IDEP)
Review of Clinical Decision Support Order Appropriateness Tracking (CDS-OAT)
Review of Significant Change Proposal (CP) Updates


Inside IHE: Radiation Oncology


Presenter

Mark Pepelea, Philips

Topics

Review of Basic Radiation Therapy Objects (BRTO)
Review of Advanced RT objects
Review of Quality Assurance with Plan Veto (QAPV)
Review of Multi-modality image registration (MMRO)
Review of Treatment Delivery Record Content (TDRC)
Review of Treatment Delivery Workflow (TDW)























 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Resources


IHE has created a set of information resources and tools for vendors and users of healthcare information systems to help them integrate systems and share information more effectively.



Understand the standards-based integration capabilities defined in the IHE Technical Frameworks, in plain language.



Learn how to use IHE to improve the way systems are selected, specified, purchased and deployed.



See projects that have made use of IHE to integrate systems within a healthcare institution.



See detailed reference documents that guide systems developers and integrators in implementing standards.



View and submit comments on Technical Framework documents.



View educational webinars to help your organization develop and implement HIT systems.





















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Case Studies


IHE case studies describe projects that use IHE profiles to improve systems interoperability and information access for patients and providers within and across care sites. They highlight the advantages of using IHE to improve:

Operational efficiency in implementing and upgrading systems
Productivity and workflow efficiency
Communication among care providers and patients and access to vital medical information
Patient safety and quality of care

The organizations, programs and care sites listed below have progressed toward these goals by leveraging IHE profiles. Click the links to read their stories.




















Submit a Case Study
If your organization has made use of IHE profiles to integrate systems and improve access to information for providers and patients, we invite you to share you story with IHE and the broader healthcare community.  or contact secretary@ihe.net for further information.
Case Study Archive




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











IHE Technical Framework Documents for Public Comment

















The  are a resource for users, developers and implementers of healthcare imaging and information systems. They define specific implementations of established standards to achieve effective systems integration, facilitate appropriate sharing of medical information and support optimal patient care. Technical Framework documents are maintained regularly by the IHE Technical Committees through the identification and correction of errata.
Technical Framework documents that are currently in their designated public review phase are linked below. Comments are invited on all published Technical Framework documents on an ongoing basis. All comments should be submitted using the links provided below.
Technical Framework Templates and General Introduction
Public Comments

IHE Templates for Public Comment
None currently
IHE General Introduction and Shared Appendices for Public Comment
None currently

Cardiology
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Dental
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Devices
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
The IHE Devices Technical Committee has published the following supplement for public comment in the period from April 11 through May 11, 2024:

  Published 2024-04-11

Comments on this document should be submitted by May 11, 2024. Submit your comments via traditional methods  or by creating a 
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Endoscopy
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Eye Care
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

IT Infrastructure
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
Please see .
White Papers/Handbooks for Public Comment
None currently
Although the following white paper has completed its public comment period and has been published , the IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Committee is continuing to accept comments for future development purposes.

  Published 2020-05-29

Comments are being accepted on an ongoing basis. 

Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently

White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Patient Care Coordination
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee has published the following supplement for public comment in the period from April 10 through May 10, 2024:

  Published 2024-04-10

Comments on this document should be submitted by May 10, 2024. 
The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee has published the following supplement for public comment in the period from March 8 through April 7, 2024:

  Published 2024-03-08 

Comments on this document should be submitted by April 7, 2024. Submit your comment via traditional methods  or create a  issue.
The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee has published the following supplements for public comment in the period from January 12 through March 14, 2021:

  Published 2021-01-12
  Published 2021-01-12

Comments on these documents should be submitted by March 14, 2021. 
The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee has published the following supplement for public comment in the period from August 26 through September 25, 2020:

  Published 2020-08-26

Comments on this document should be submitted by September 25, 2020. 
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Pharmacy
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Quality, Research and Public Health
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
None currently
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Radiation Oncology
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
The IHE Radiation Oncology Technical Committee has published the following supplements for public comment in the period from November 10 through December 11, 2023:

  Published 2023-11-10
  Published 2023-11-10
  Published 2023-11-10

Comments on these documents should be submitted by December 11, 2023. 
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently

Radiology
Public Comments

Supplements for Public Comment
The IHE Radiology Technical Committee has published the following supplement for public comment in the period from March 8 through April 7, 2024:

  Published 2024-03-08

Comments on these documents should be submitted by April 7, 2024. 
White Papers for Public Comment
None currently





















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Profiles


Healthcare professionals seeking to acquire or upgrade systems need a convenient, reliable way of specifying a level of compliance to standards sufficient to achieve truly efficient interoperability. The purpose of the IHE initiative is to meet that need.
IHE Profiles provide a common language for purchasers and vendors to discuss the integration needs of healthcare sites and the integration capabilities of healthcare IT products. They offer developers a clear implementation path for communication standards supported by industry partners and carefully documented, reviewed and tested. They give purchasers a tool that reduces the complexity, cost and anxiety of implementing interoperable systems.
Profiles and Standards
IHE Profiles organize and leverage the integration capabilities that can be achieved by coordinated implementation of communication standards, such as DICOM, HL7 W3C and security standards. They provide precise definitions of how standards can be implemented to meet specific clinical needs.
IHE Domains and Annual Work Cycles
IHE is organized across a growing number of clinical and operational domains. Each domain produces its own set of Technical Framework documents, in close coordination with other IHE domains. Committees in each domain review and republish these documents annually, often expanding with supplements that define new profiles. Initially, each profile is published for public comment. After the comments received are addressed, the revised profile is republished for trial implementation; that is, for use in the IHE implementation testing process. If criteria for successful testing are achieved, the profile is published as final text and incorporated into the domains Technical Framework.
The links below lead to brief descriptions of IHE profiles that have been published.

































 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













Technical Frameworks



















The IHE Technical Frameworks, available for download below, are a resource for users, developers and implementers of healthcare imaging and information systems. They define specific implementations of established standards to achieve effective systems integration, facilitate appropriate sharing of medical information and support optimal patient care. Technical Framework documents are maintained regularly by the IHE Technical Committees through the identification and correction of errata.


Review and Submit Comments
IHE invites implementers and other interested parties to review and provide input on IHE Technical Framework documents:

Public Comment Phase: Each Technical Framework or White Paper undergoes a period of public comment. Documents currently released for public comment are available .
Ongoing Comments: IHE also welcomes corrections or suggestions for improvement to our Technical Framework documents. To submit your feedback on a domains published documents, follow the following links:

Anatomic Pathology (see Pathology and Laboratory Medicine)






Laboratory (see Pathology and Laboratory Medicine)









Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals
Beginning with the 2015 publication cycle, a new (pilot) process for communicating Final Text (approved) Change Proposals has been established. It is important to note that as soon as a Change Proposal becomes Final Text, it carries the same weight as published Technical Frameworks and Trial Implementation Supplements (i.e., it is testable at a Connectathon from the time it is approved for Final Text, even if it will not be integrated into the applicable Technical Framework document until several months later). For domains that are piloting this new process, a link will be available in their section below to a repository of Final Text CPs and an index spreadsheet.
Call for Profile Proposals
The first step in getting a new profile developed is the submission of a Brief Profile Proposal. Consult with a specific domains Planning Committee for the schedule for submitting these proposals for the next development cycle.

IHE Technical Frameworks General Introduction and Shared Appendices
New: The IHE Technical Frameworks General Introduction and Shared Appendices are now published as HTML.
The IHE Technical Frameworks General Introduction and Shared Appendices are shared by all of the IHE domain technical frameworks. Each technical framework volume contains links to this information where applicable. It is posted here for ease of reference.







Note: IHE Glossary terms are maintained via the . (SKMT). The embedded document contains all terms as of the publication date of the document. Always refer to the SKMT for the most current list of IHE Glossary terms. See the  for further information.





Comments from authors and other interested parties on the IHE General Introduction documents are invited on an ongoing basis. 

Anatomic Pathology Technical Framework
As of January 4, 2016 the Anatomic Pathology and Laboratory domains merged forming the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) domain. Going forward, please reference the  domain section for Technical Framework development work.


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_PAT_TF_Vol1
IHE_PAT_Suppl_APSR

Those links always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_PAT_TF_Rev2.0_Vol1_FT_2010-07-23
IHE_PAT_Suppl_APSR_Rev1.1_TI_2011-03-31


Cardiology Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Current Technical Framework  Revision 5.0
August 29, 2013
Copyright  2013: IHE International, Inc.
Final Text





Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Cardiology Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the IHE Cardiology Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Published 2011-07-01
  Revised 2018-08-17

  Revised 2018-08-17
  Revised 2018-08-17


  Revised 2016-07-25

 (XML)  Published 2016-07-25


  Revised 2013-08-29
  Revised 2013-08-29
  Published 2014-04-30

 (XML)


  Revised 2013-08-29
  Published 2013-05-21
  Published 2014-07-18

 (XML)
 (PDF)


  Published 2015-07-14

  Published 2015-07-15


  Revised 2013-08-29
 Revised 2013-08-29

Cardiology White Papers

  Published 2011-08-05
  Published 2007-06-08


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example:

IHE_CARD_TF_Vol1
IHE_CARD_Suppl_BIR

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_CARD_TF_Rev4.0_Vol1_FT_2011-08-05
IHE_CARD_Suppl_BIR_Rev1.2_TI_2012-07-25


Dental Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Current Technical Framework
To be developed.
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Dental Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplement to the forthcoming IHE Dental Technical Framework. This trial implementation profile is eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Published 2013-09-06


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_DENT_Suppl_SEDI

Those links always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_DENT_Suppl_SEDI_Rev1.2_TI_2013-09-06


Devices Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Current Technical Framework  Revision 9.0
December 12, 2019
Copyright  2019: IHE International, Inc.





These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Alert Communication Management (ACM)
Device Enterprise Communication (DEC)
Implantable Device  Cardiac Observation (IDCO)
Infusion Pump Event Communication (IPEC)
Point-of-Care Infusion Verification (PIV)
Rosetta Terminology Mapping (RTM)

Brief descriptions of these profiles are .
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Devices (DEV) Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the Devices Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles will be eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

Infusion Pump Event Communication (IPEC)  Incorporated into the Technical Framework Volumes as of Rev. 9.0
  Revised 2023-04-07
  Revised 2023-04-07
  Published 2020-04-13
  Published 2018-12-07
  Published 2012-08-16
  Published 2012-08-16
  Revised 2023-12-08 

 (unoptimized rendering)
(for current release)


  Published 2007-07-29 (Reissued for NA2012 on 2011-11-11)
  Revised 2018-01-08

Devices White Papers
The IHE Devices Technical Committee has published the following white papers. These white papers facilitate the use of existing IHE Devices profiles and/or scope the need for future profiles.

  Published 2017-06-16
  Published 2015-10-14
  Published 2009-09-01
  Published 2011-05-27
  Published 2015-10-14
  Published 2018-10-23
  Published 2019-11-01

  Published 2019-11-01



Devices User Handbook
The IHE Devices Technical Committee has published the following User Handbook.

 (aka PCD Cookbook)  Published 2018-04-12


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_PCD_TF_Vol1
IHE_PCD_Suppl_POI

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_PCD_TF_Rev2.0_Vol1_FT_2012-08-16
IHE_PCD_Suppl_POI_Rev1.1_TI_2012-08-16


Endoscopy Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Current Technical Framework
Not yet developed.
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Endoscopy Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the forthcoming IHE Endoscopy Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Published 2018-11-28
  Published 2018-11-28
  Published 2018-11-28


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_ENDO_TF_Vol1
IHE_ENDO_Suppl_ABC

Those links always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_ENDO_TF_Rev11.0_Vol1_FT_2012-07-24
IHE_ENDO_Suppl_ABC_Rev1.2_TI_2012-07-24


Eye Care Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals
In addition to the Technical Framework Volumes and Trial Implementation Supplements listed below, implementers should also review Final Text CPs in preparation for IHE Connectathons. A summary spreadsheet of Eye Cares Final Text Change Proposals with links to the applicable CPs is located .
Current Technical Framework  Revision 4.0
June 14, 2016
Copyright  2016: IHE International, Inc.
Final Text




These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Eye Care Workflow (EYECARE)  Retired 2016-06-14
Charge Posting (CHG)
Eye Care Evidence Documents (ECED)
Eye Care Displayable Report (ECDR)
Unified Eye Care Workflow (U-EYECARE)

Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Eye Care Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the IHE Eye Care Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Eye Care Connectathons.

Basic Eye Care Workflow (B-EYECARE)  Retired 2016-06-14
  Revised 2016-12-29
Core Eye Care Workflow (C-EYECARE)  Retired 2016-06-14
  Published 2010-05-03
  Published 2017-09-15
  Published 2019-05-30
  Revised 2016-06-29


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example:

IHE_EyeCare_TF_Vol1
IHE_EyeCare_Suppl_GEE

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_EyeCare_TF_Rev3.7_Vol1_FT_2012-08-31
IHE_EyeCare_Suppl_GEE_Rev1.1_TI_2012-06-29


IT Infrastructure Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals
IMPORTANT NOTE: In addition to the Technical Framework Volumes and Trial Implementation Supplements listed below, implementers should also review Final Text Change Proposals (CPs) in preparation for IHE Connectathons. An index of approved CPs is found 
Current Technical Framework  Revision 20.0 
August 4, 2023
Copyright  2023: IHE International, Inc.
Final Text
New: The IT Infrastructure Technical Committee has converted the complete ITI Technical Framework to HTML. It is available .



  Document Sharing Metadata and Content Profiles


These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Audit Trail and Node Authentication (ATNA)
Basic Patient Privacy Consents (BPPC)
Consistent Time (CT)
Cross-Community Access (XCA)
Cross-Community Patient Discovery (XCPD)
Cross-Enterprise Document Media Interchange (XDM)
Cross-Enterprise Document Reliable Interchange (XDR)
Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing (XDS.b)
Cross-Enterprise Document Workflow (XDW)
Cross-Enterprise Sharing of Scanned Documents (XDS-SD)
Document Metadata Subscription (DSUB)
Cross-Enterprise User Assertion (XUA)
Document Digital Signature (DSG)
Enterprise User Authentication (EUA)
Multi-Patient Queries (MPQ)
Patient Administration Management (PAM)
Patient Demographic Query HL7 V3 (PDQ V3)
Patient Demographics Query (PDQ)
Patient Identifier Cross-Referencing (PIX)
Patient Identifier Cross-Reference HL7 V3 (PIX V3)
Patient Synchronized Applications (PSA)
Personnel White Pages (PWP)
Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD)
Retrieve Information for Display (RID)
Sharing Value Sets (SVS)
XAD-PID Change Management (XPID)

Brief descriptions of these profiles are .
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the IT Infrastructure Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2021-07-02
  Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2024-02-16 
  Revised 2016-09-09
  Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2019-07-12
  Revised 2023-05-04
  Revised 2015-08-31
  Revised 2019-07-12
  Published 2024-02-29 
  Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2020-08-28
  Revised 2022-06-17 
  Revised 2023-08-04 
  Revised 2019-12-05
  Revised 2022-08-12 
  Revised 2023-08-04 
  Revised 2023-08-04 
  Revised 2023-11-17 
Notification of Document Availability (NAV)  Deprecated 2013-09-27
  Revised 2024-02-23 
  Revised 2024-02-23 
  Revised 2022-08-09 
  Revised 2015-08-31
  Revised 2024-02-23 
  Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2021-07-02
  Revised 2022-10-24 
  Published 2023-11-17 
  Revised 2023-08-04 
  Published 2019-08-15
  Revised 2023-08-04

IT Infrastructure User Handbooks
User handbooks provide advice, examples and considerations for the use of IHE ITI profiles.

  Revised 2008-11-10
  Revised 2014-06-06

  Revised 2014-06-06


  Published 2022-03-01
  Revised 2008-12-02

IT Infrastructure White Papers
The IHE IT Infrastructure Technical Committee has published the following white papers. These white papers facilitate the use of existing IHE ITI profiles or scope the need for future profiles.

  Published 2009-09-28
  Published 2016-12-02
  Published 2009-09-28
  Published 2023-05-04 
  Revised 2021-03-19
  Published 2015-09-18
  Published 2021-11-08
  Published 2020-05-29


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic file names, for example:

IHE_ITI_TF_Vol1
IHE_ITI_Suppl_XDW

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_ITI_TF_Rev9.0_Vol1_FT_2012-08-31
IHE_ITI_Suppl_XDW_Rev1.2_TI_2012-08-31


Laboratory Technical Framework
As of January 4, 2016 the Anatomic Pathology and Laboratory domains merged forming the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (PaLM) domain. Going forward, please reference the  domain section for Technical Framework development work.

The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_LAB_TF_Vol1
IHE_LAB_Suppl_GIR

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_LAB_TF_Rev4.0_Vol1_FT_2012-10-02
IHE_LAB_Suppl_GIR_Rev1.1_TI_2012-10-02


Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at 
Current Technical Framework  Revision 11.0
April 8, 2024
Copyright  2024: IHE International, Inc.
Final Text


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes:









These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:
(For all profiles, actors and supported transactions are found in Volume 1; segment definitions common to all are in Volume 2x)

Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW)  see Volume 2b
Laboratory Testing Workflow (LTW)  see Volume 2a
Laboratory Device Automation (LDA)  see Volume 2a
Laboratory Point Of Care Testing (LPOCT)  see Volume 2c
Laboratory Code Set Distribution (LCSD)  see Volume 2c
Laboratory Specimen Barcode Labeling (LBL)  see Volume 2c
Sharing Laboratory Reports (XD-LAB)  see Volume 3

Brief descriptions of these profiles are .
Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Revised 2010-07-23
  Revised 2018-09-28
  Revised 2024-04-08
  Published 2010-10-15
  Revised 2013-11-08
  Revised 2024-04-08
  Published 2021-11-23
  Published 2021-11-23
  Revised 2019-10-22

Pathology and Laboratory Medicine White Papers
The IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Technical Committee has published the following white papers. These white papers facilitate the use of existing IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine profiles and/or scope the need for future profiles.

  Published 2022-11-18


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_PaLM_TF_Vol1
IHE_PaLM_Suppl_LAW

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_PaLM_TF_Rev4.0_Vol1_FT_2012-10-02
IHE_PaLM_Suppl_LAW_Rev1.1_TI_2012-10-02


Patient Care Coordination Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted 
Current Technical Framework  Revision 11.0
November 11, 2016
Copyright  2016: IHE International, Inc.




These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Cross Enterprise Sharing of Medical Summaries Integration Profile (XDS-MS), including Medical Summary Document Content (MS) specification
Emergency Department Referral (EDR)
Exchange of Personal Health Record Content (XPHR
Immunization Content (IC)  incorporated into the TF 2013-10-04

Brief descriptions of these profiles are .
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the PCC Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles are eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Revised 2021-04-14
  Revised 2011-09-09

Antepartum Education (APE)
Antepartum Laboratory (APL)
Antepartum History and Physical (APHP)
Antepartum Summary (APS)


  Revised 2020-03-24
  Published 2018-11-02
  Published 2008-08-26
  Revised 2022-03-16
  Published 2019-09-27
  Published 2020-08-26
Clinical Mapping (CMAP)  Deprecated
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Published 2016-09-09
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Revised 2014-11-04
  Revised 2019-09-27
  Published 2017-09-08 Note: An updated revision (2.0) has been published for public comment as of 2019-12-31
Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Workflow Definition (EHDI-WD)  This supplement has been relocated to the QRPH domain section
  Revised 2016-11-11

Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN)
ED Physician Note (EDPN)
Nursing Note (NN)
Triage Note (TN)


EMS Transfer of Care (ETC)  Deprecated
  Revised 2013-11-08
  Published 2015-08-05
  Published 2023-10-09
 (includes the following profiles)  Revised 2013-10-04

Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP)
Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS)
Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS)


  Published 2018-11-02
  Revised 2011-09-09
  Published 2018-09-13 Note: An updated revision (2.0) has been published for public comment as of 2021-01-12
  Published 2013-10-04
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Published 2010-08-30
  Published 2017-09-08
  Revised 2011-09-09
  Revised 2016-11-11
  Revised on 2022-02-08
  Revised 2016-11-11
  Revised 2014-11-04
  Published 2015-08-05
  Revised 2009-08-10
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Published 2017-09-08 Note: An updated revision (2.0) has been published for public comment as of 2021-01-12
Transport Record Summary Profiles (includes the following profiles)  Deprecated

Emergency Department Transport Summary (ETS)
Interfacility Transport Summary (ITS)



Patient Care Coordination Implementation Guides



Patient Care Coordination White Papers

  Published 2014-10-24
  (from the Public Health Data Standards Consortium)  Published 2007-10-11
  Published 2017-09-27


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_PCC_TF_Vol1
IHE_PCC_Suppl_RCK

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_PCC_TF_Rev8.0_Vol1_FT_2012-08-31
IHE_PCC_Suppl_RCK_Rev1.1_TI_2012-08-16


Pharmacy
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Current Technical Framework  To Be Developed
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Pharmacy Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the forthcoming Pharmacy Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles will be available for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Revised 2014-09-29
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2013-10-11
  Published 2017-12-04
  Published 2017-12-04

Pharmacy White Papers
The IHE Pharmacy Technical Committee has published the following white papers.

  Published 2020-03-11


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_Pharmacy_Suppl_HMW

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_Pharmacy_Suppl_HMW_Rev1.3_TI_2012-09-27


Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Current Technical Framework  Revision 2.0
July 5, 2019
Copyright  2019: IHE International, Inc.
Final Text






These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Clinical Research Document (CRD) (added in Rev 1.0)
Drug Safety Content (DSC) (added in Rev 1.0)
Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI) (added in Rev. 2.0)

Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the Trial Implementation QRPH Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles may be available for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Revised 2019-03-19
  Published 2019-03-19
Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDR)  Deprecated 2014-09-05 (replaced with BFDR-E)
  Revised 2021-12-29
  Published 2021-10-26
  Published 2021-10-26
  Revised 2018-09-07
  Revised 2018-09-07
Early Hearing Care Plan (EHCP)  Deprecated 2014-06-06 (Refer to the HPoC content specifications in the )
  Revised 2016-08-10
  Revised 2019-08-30
  Revised 2016-09-09
  Revised 2021-12-29
  Revised 2022-03-16
  Revised 2021-10-26
  Revised 2019-08-30
Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI)  Incorporated into the TF as of Rev. 2.0
  Revised 2011-09-02
  Published 2019-09-11
  Revised 2016-08-10
  Revised 2021-10-01
Redaction Services (RSP) Deprecated 2018-01-31
Research Matching (RM)  Deprecated 2018-01-31
  Revised 2018-09-07
  Revised 2021-05-14
  Revised 2021-02-24

Quality, Research and Public Health White Papers
The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Committee has published the following white papers:

  Published 2018-02-06
  Published 2021-10-01
  Published 2021-12-29
  Published 2010-06-04
  Published 2009-09-01
  Published 2017-02-23
  Published 2021-06-29
  Published 2008-06-10
  Published 2016-11-09

The Quality, Research and Public Health Domain endorses the white paper developed by the Public Health Data Standards Consortium. The white paper provides two detailed examples of public health programs (immunization and cancer registries). It also identifies other programs for the development of technical specifications for interoperable systems in the future that manage public health, research, and quality. The white paper serves as a framing document for planning public health activities in IHE.



We invite public health professionals to join our collaborative efforts at IHE between the public health and HIT vendor communities to guide the development of the IHE Integration Profiles for interoperability among and between Electronic Health Record and Public Health Systems. These profiles will facilitate the necessary linkages, standardization and integration of health data between clinical care and public health to create robust overarching health information exchanges.
2006-2007 Supplement for Public Comment
The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Committee has published the initial profile below for public comment:




The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework Volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework Volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_QRPH_Suppl_CRD

Those links will always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_QRPH_Suppl_CRD_Rev3.1_TI_2012-09-24


Radiation Oncology Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at 
Current Technical Framework  Revision 2.0
April 7, 2020
Copyright  2020: ASTRO, AAPM, RSNA, HIMSS, IHE International, Inc.
Final Text Version





These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Basic Radiation Therapy Objects Integration Profile II (BRTO-II)  Added 2020-04-07 Rev. 2.0
Multimodality Image Registration for Radiation Oncology-III (MMRO-III)  Added 2020-04-07 Rev. 2.0
Treatment Planning  Plan Content (TPPC)  Added 2020-04-07 Rev. 2.0

Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Radiation Oncology Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the Radiation Oncology Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles may be eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Published 2022-04-13
  Published 2022-12-19
  Published 2023-11-03
  Published 2016-11-16
  Published 2019-07-01
  Published 2021-02-05


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_RO_TF_Vol1
IHE_RO_Suppl_TDPC

Those links always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_RO_TF_Rev1.8_Vol1_FT_2014-06-26
IHE_RO_Suppl_TDPC_Rev1.1_TI_2016-11-16


Radiology Technical Framework
Comments and implementer feedback on all documents can be submitted at .
Final Text (Approved) Change Proposals
In addition to the Technical Framework Volumes and Trial Implementation Supplements listed below, implementers should also review Final Text CPs.An index spreadsheet providing the location (Rad Process tab) and the status (CPs tab) of Radiologys Change Proposals (including Final Text) is located .
Current Technical Framework  Revision 21.0
June 15, 2023
Copyright  2023: IHE International, Inc.
Final Text Version








These Technical Framework Volumes provide specification of the following profiles:

Radiology Scheduled Workflow (SWF)
Patient Information Reconciliation (PIR)
Consistent Presentation of Images (CPI)
Presentation of Grouped Procedures (PGP)
Access to Radiology Information (ARI)
Key Image Note (KIN)
Simple Image and Numeric Report (SINR)
Charge Posting (CHG)
Post-processing Workflow (PWF)
Reporting Workflow (RWF)
Evidence Documents (ED)
Portable Data for Imaging (PDI)
Nuclear Medicine Image
Cross-enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging (XDS-I)  Deprecated 2012-07-24 and replaced with XDS-I.b
Mammography Image
Import Reconciliation Workflow (IRWF)
Teaching File and Clinical Trial Export (TCE)
Radiation Exposure Monitoring (REM)  Added 2012-07-24
Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging (XDS-I.b)  Added 2012-07-24
Cross-Community Access for Imaging (XCA-I)  Added 2013-09-16
Imaging Object Change Management (IOCM)  Added 2014-07-30
Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT)  Added 2016-09-09 Rev. 15.0
Scheduled Workflow.b (SWF.b)  Added 2020-09-18 Rev. 19.0
Management of Radiology Report Templates (MRRT)  Added 2022-03-10 Rev. 20.0
Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Nuclear Medicine (REM-NM)  Added 2023-06-15 Rev. 21.0

Brief descriptions of these profiles are .
Supplements for Trial Implementation
The IHE Radiology Technical Committee invites organizations to begin development work based on the following supplements to the Radiology Technical Framework. These trial implementation profiles may be eligible for testing at subsequent IHE Connectathons.

  Revised 2022-07-06
  Published 2020-08-06
  Revised 2016-09-09
  Published 2010-06-17
  Revised 2019-04-25
  Published 2021-04-30
  Revised 2019-08-09
  Published 2017-01-13
  Revised 2015-04-21
Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT) Extension  Incorporated into Rev. 19.0 of the Technical Framework
  Revised 2019-05-13
  Published 2009-21-06
  Published 2006-04-13
  Revised 2019-08-09
  Published 2019-05-30
  Revised 2016-09-09
  Published 2023-10-04 
  Published 2022-07-25 
  Revised 2016-09-09
  Revised 2016-09-09
 Published 2017-07-14
Management of Radiology Report Templates (MRRT)  Incorporated into Rev. 20.0 of the Technical Framework
Mobile Access to Health Documents for Imaging (MHD-I)  Deprecated 2017-09-15 and replaced with WIA
  Published 2009-06-21
  Revised 2023-06-15
  Published 2007-05-17
  Published 2012-06-15
  Published 2023-08-22
Radiation Exposure Monitoring for Nuclear Medicine (REM-NM)  Incorporated into Rev. 21.0 of the Technical Framework
  Published 2015-12-14
  Revised 2019-08-09
Scheduled Workflow.b (SWF.b)  Incorporated into Rev. 19.0 of the Technical Framework
  Revised 2023-06-15
  Revised 2018-07-27
  Revised 2023-06-15
  Revised 2023-06-15

Radiology White Papers
The IHE Radiology Technical Committee has published the following white papers. Comments are invited and can be made at any time.

  Published 2021-10-12
  Revised 2022-03-10
  Published 2012-12-17
  Published 2004-04-15
  Published 2012-12-17


The archive page contains deprecated supplements and superseded versions of the Technical Framework volumes, white papers and handbooks. As of July 2012, it also contains:

Superseded versions of trial implementation supplements
Current published versions of the Technical Framework volumes and supplements

Current documents (published July 2012 or later) have generic files names, for example:

IHE_RAD_TF_Vol1
IHE_RAD_Suppl_BIR

Those links always return the newest document and support linking to specific sections (section linking details ).
File names on the archive page include revision numbers, status and date of publication, and can be used to link to specific versions of a document:

IHE_RAD_TF_Rev11.0_Vol1_FT_2012-07-24
IHE_RAD_Suppl_BIR_Rev1.2_TI_2012-07-24






















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













Technical Framework Archives


















The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at. The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework supplements currently published for public comment are available at .
Anatomic Pathology Archives
Current Published IHE Anatomic Pathology Documents
Technical Framework
The Laboratory Technical Framework is now the PaLM Technical Framework (due to merger of the AP and LAB domains).
Superseded IHE Anatomic Pathology Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Superseded Anatomic Pathology Technical Framework Supplements

  Published 2011-03-31

  Published 2011-03-31




Cardiology Archives
Current Published IHE Cardiology Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 5.0 (Published 2013-08-29)





Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Published 2011-07-11
  Revised 2018-08-17

  Revised 2018-08-17
  Revised 2018-08-17


  Revised 2016-07-25
  Revised 2013-08-29
  Revised 2013-08-29
  Revised 2013-08-29
 Published 2013-05-21
  Published 2014-07-18

 (XML)
 (PDF)


  Published 2015-07-14

  Published 2015-07-15


  Revised 2013-08-29
 Revised 2013-08-29

Superseded IHE Cardiology Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 4.0 (Published 2011-08-05)




Technical Framework  Revision 3.0 (Published 2010-10-15)




Superseded Cardiology Technical Framework Supplements

  Published 2017-08-04
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-06-29
  Rev 1.2 Revised 2012-07-25
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-11
  Rev. 47 Revised 2010-07-30
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-10-15
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-07-30
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-08-05
 Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-10-15


Dental Archives
Current Published IHE Dental Documents
Technical Framework  Not yet created
Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Revised 2013-09-06

Superseded IHE Dental Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Superseded Dental Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-08-05


Devices Archives
Current Published IHE Devices Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 9.0 (Published 2019-12-12)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, IPEC, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2023-04-07
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2023-04-07
  Rev. 1.1Published 2020-04-13
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-12-07
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16
  Rev. 1.2.0 Published 2023-12-08 
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2007-07-29 (Reissued for NA2012 on 2011-11-11)
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2018-01-08

Superseded IHE Devices Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 8.0 (Published 2018-10-23)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Technical Framework  Revision 7.0 (Published 2017-11-09)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Technical Framework  Revision 6.0 (Published 2016-11-09)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Technical Framework  Revision 5.0 (Published 2015-10-14)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)

 

Technical Framework  Revision 4.0 (Published 2014-11-04)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Technical Framework  Revision 3.0 (Published 2013-10-11)

 (includes ACM, DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Technical Framework  Revision 2.0 (Published 2012-08-16)

 (includes DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Technical Framework  Revsion 1.0 (Published 2011-08-12)

 (includes DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)



Trial Implementation Technical Framework  Revision 1.2 (Published 2010-09-30)

 (includes DEC, IDCO, PIV, and RTM profiles)


Trial Implementation Technical Framework  Revision 1.1 (Published 2006-08-15)




Superseded IHE Devices Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-07-01
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-08-16  Incorporated into TF Volumes 2013-10-11
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-08-12
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-12-20
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2014-06-26
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2015-11-25 (Incorporated into Rev. 9.0 of TF Volumes)
  Rev. 1.1. Published 2014-11-04
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-14
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-11-09
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-11-04
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-14
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-11-09
  Link to Previous Releases in GitHub 
  Rev 1.1 Published 2011-07-01
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-08-16

Superseded IHE Devices User Handbooks

  Published 2011-08-12


Endoscopy Archives
Current Published IHE Endoscopy Documents
Technical Framework  Not yet created
Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Published 2018-11-28
  Published 2018-11-28
  Published 2018-11-28

Superseded IHE Endoscopy Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Superseded Endoscopy Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-12-14
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-12-14
  Rev. 2.1 Published 2017-04-20


Eye Care Archives
Current Published IHE Eye Care Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 4.0 (Published 2016-06-14)




Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Revised 2016-12-29
  Published 2010-05-03
 Published 2017-09-15
 Published 2019-05-30
  Revised 2016-06-29

Superseded IHE Eye Care Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Rev. 3.7 (Published 2010-02-15)




Superseded Eye Care Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2014-10-03
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-07-14
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-06-29
 Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-04-29
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-07-14
  Published 2016-06-14

Retired Eye Care Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 2.1 Retired 2016-06-14
  Rev. 1.1  Retired 2016-06-14


IT Infrastructure Archives
Current Published IHE IT Infrastructure Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 20.0 (Published 2023-08-04) 
Published  as HTML. (PDF version no longer available)

: Profile definition, use-case analysis, actor definition, and use of transactions and content
: Transaction definitions and constraints
: Document Sharing Metadata and Content Profiles
: National Extensions

Technical Framework Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Rev. 3.4 Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2021-07-02
  Revised 2020-08-28
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2023-08-04
  Release 1.1.3 Revised 2024-02-16 
  Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2019-07-12
  Revised 2023-05-04
  Revised 2015-08-31
  Revised 2019-07-12
  Release 1.0.0 Published 2024-02-29 
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2020-08-28
  Revised 2021-03-19 
  Release 4.2.1 Revised 2023-08-04 
  Revised 2019-12-05
  Revised 2022-03-01 
  Release 1.3.0 Revised 2023-08-04
  Release 2.3.1 Revised 2023-08-04 
  Release 2.2.0 Revised 2023-11-17 
  Release 3.0.0 Revised 2024-02-23 
  Release 3.0.4 Revised 2024-02-23 
  Revised 2015-08-31
  Revised 2022-08-08 
  Release 1.1.0 Revised 2024-02-23 
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2023-08-04
  Revised 2021-07-02
  Revised 2022-10-24 
  Release 1.1.0 Published 2023-11-17 
  Release 1.5.1 Revised 2023-08-04 
  Published 2019-08-15
  Rev. 1.14 Revised 2023-08-04

Superseded IHE IT Infrastructure Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 19.0 (Published 2022-06-17) 
See the release info 
Technical Framework  Revision 18.0 (Published 2021-07-30)

See the release info .

Technical Framework  Revision 17.0 (Published 2020-07-20) Note: Last PDF published version


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28.
 (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64.



 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
 National Extensions

Technical Framework  Revision 16.0 (Published 2019-07-12)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28.
 (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64.



 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
 National Extensions

Technical Framework  Revision 15.0 (Published 2018-07-24)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28.
 (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64.



 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
 National Extensions

Technical Framework  Revision 15.0 (Published 2018-07-24)

Volume 2x only:





Technical Framework  Revision 14.0 (Published 2017-07-21)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28.
 (continued) ITI-29 through ITI-64.



 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
 National Extensions

Technical Framework  Revision 13.0 (Published 2016-09-09)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ



: Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
: National Extensions

The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 12.0 (Published 2015-09-18)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ



: Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
: National Extensions

Technical Framework  Revision 11.0 (Published 2014-09-23)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ



: Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications
: National Extensions

Technical Framework  Revision 10.0 (Published 2013-09-27)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ



): Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications

Technical Framework  Revision 9.0 (Published 2012-08-31)


Volume 2 Transactions:  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ



): Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications

Technical Framework  Revision 8.0 (Published 2011-08-19)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-64. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS, XCA, PIX V3, MPQ
 Appendices A through W and Glossary


 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications

Technical Framework  Revision 7.0 (Published 2010-08-10)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-50. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS
 Appendices A through W and Glossary


 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications

Technical Framework  Revision 6.0 (Published 2009-08-10)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:

 ITI-I through ITI-28. These transactions are used in the following profiles CT, PSA, EUA, PIX, RID, XDS, ATNA, PDQ, PWP, NAV
 ITI-29 through ITI-50. These transactions are used in the following profiles PAM, XDM, XUA, XDS
 Appendices A through W and Glossary


 Contains Section 4 Cross-Transaction Specifications and Section 5 IHE Content Specifications

Technical Framework  Revision 5.0 (Published 2008-12-12)




Technical Framework  Revision 4.0 (Published 2007-08-22)




Deprecated IT Infrastructure Technical Framework Supplements

  Deprecated 2013-09-27
  Deprecated 2012-08-31

Superseded IT Infrastructure Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-07
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-08-05
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2019-08-15
  Rev. 3.2 Revised 2020-08-26
  Rev, 3.3 Revised 2021-07-02
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-08-05
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2018-07-24
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2019-07-12
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-06-02
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2017-07-21
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-08-20
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2019-07-12
  Link to Version History table 
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-20
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2014-10-13
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-03-31
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2021-08-06
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-08-19
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2013-10-25
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev 2.4 Revised 2012-08-31  Incorporated in TF Volumes Rev. 11
  Rev. 2.5 Revised 2014-10-13
  Rev. 2.6 Revised 2014-10-20 (bookmark anomaly fixed, no content changes)
  Rev. 2.7 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 2.8 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 2.9 Revised 2018-07-24
  Rev. 2.10 Revised 2021-07-02
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2012-08-31
  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2013-09-20
  Rev. 2.4 Revised 2014-10-13
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-03-31
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-08-20
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2013-10-25 (incorporated into the TF Volumes Rev. 15 2018-07-24)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-08-19
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2018-07-24
  Published 2009-08-10
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-03-12
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2012-08-31
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2013-09-20
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2014-10-13
  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-08-05
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2019-07-12
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2022-07-22
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-08-31
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2013-09-20
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-10-13
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2018-07-24
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-20
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2019-07-12 Note: Last PDF published version
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-31
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2013-09-20
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-10-14
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-03-12
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2016-06-02
  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2017-07-24
  Rev. 2.4 Revised 2018-07-24
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2019-03-06
  Rev. 3.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Note: Last PDF published version
  Link to Version History table 
  Published 2020-05-29 Note: Last PDF published version
  Link to Version History table 
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-07
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-08-05
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2018-07-24
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-04
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2019-05-24
  Rev. 3.2 Revised 2020-08-28
  Rev. 3.3 Revised 2021-07-02 Note: Last PDF published version
  Link to Version History table 
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-04
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2017-08-18 Note: Last PDF published version
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-04
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-12-05 Note: last PDF published version
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-08-19
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-25  Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 11
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-06-02
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2020-08-28 Note: Last PDF published version
  Link to Version History table 
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-07
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-06-02
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2018-07-24
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-12-05 Note: Last PDF published version
  Link to Version History table 
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-12-05
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2020-08-28
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2020-12-11 Note: Last PDF published version
  Link to Version History table
  Link to Version History table
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-07-21
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2018-07-24
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2020-08-28
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2021-07-02
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-08-20
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2020-08-28
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2019-07-12
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2021-07-02
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2022-06-17 Note: Last PDF published version,
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-05-29
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2020-06-04
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2022-06-17 Note: Last PDF published version
  Rev 1.1 Published 2011-08-19
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-10-13
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-10-20 (bookmark anomaly fixed, no content changes)
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-08-05
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2017-07-21 (incorporated into the TF Volumes as of Rev. 17.0)
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-08-19
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-25
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2014-10-13
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-10-20 (bookmark anomaly fixed, no content changes)
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-08-31
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-08-05
  Rev. 1.8 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.9 Revised 2017-07-21
  Rev. 1.10 Revised 2018-07-24
  Rev. 1.11 Revised 2019-07-12
  Rev. 1.12 Revised 2021-07-02
  Rev. 1.13 Revised 2022-06-17

Superseded IT Infrastructure White Papers

  Published 2009-09-28
  Revised 2008-10-10
  Published 2006-08-15
  Published 2008-08-22
  Rev. 2.0 Revised 2008-08-22 (as of 2022-03-19 published as HTML)
  Published 2008-08-22
  Published 2008-10-10
  Published 2011-03-04

Superseded User Handbooks

  Rev. 1.1 Revised 2008-08-18 (as of 2022-03-19 published as HTML)

Change Proposals Incorporated in Final Text of IT Infrastructure Technical Frameworks
The links below provide access to full documentation of Change Proposals incorporated into the text of the ITI-TF:









Laboratory Archives
Current Published IHE Laboratory Documents
Technical Framework
The Laboratory Technical Framework is now the PaLM Technical Framework (due to merger of the AP and LAB domains).
Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Published 2010-10-15
  Published 2013-11-08
Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW)  This supplement has been relocated to the PaLM domain section

Superseded IHE Laboratory Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 6.0 (Published 2015-07-14)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:








Technical Framework  Revision 5.0 (Published 2013-11-08)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:








Technical Framework  Revision 4.0 (Published 2012-10-02)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into three separate sub-volumes:








Technical Framework  Revision 3.0 (Published 2011-05-19)




Volume 4 (LAB TF-4): LOINC Terminology  Deprecated 2011-05-19

Technical Framework  Revision 2.1 (Published 2008-08-08)






Superseded IHE Laboratory Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.0 Published 2009-07-16
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-10-02
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-10-02
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2013-10-25
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-03-16
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-01-03
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-07-14


Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Archives
Current Published IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 11.0 (Published 2024-04-08)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes:









Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Published 2018-09-28
  Revised 2024-04-08
  Revised 2024-04-08
  Published 2021-11-23
  Published 2021-11-23
  Published 2019-10-22

Superseded IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 10.0 (Published 2019-08-20)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes:









Technical Framework  Revision 9.0 (Published 2018-08-07)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes:









Technical Framework  Revision 8.0 (Published 2017-06-21)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes:









Technical Framework  Revision 7.0 (Published 2016-07-05)


Volume 2: Transactions  Volume 2 is divided into four separate sub-volumes:









Superseded IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.2 Published 2020-08-14
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-03-16
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-02-24
  Rev. 2.1 Published 2019-06-12


Patient Care Coordination Archives
Current Published IHE Patient Care Coordination Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 11.0 (Published 2016-11-11)


 Rev. 11.1 Revised 2021-04-14

Technical Framework Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2021-04-14
  Revised 2011-09-09

Antepartum Education (APE)
Antepartum Laboratory (APL)
Antepartum History and Physical (APHP)
Antepartum Summary (APS)


  Revised 2020-03-24
  Published 2018-11-02
  Published 2008-08-22
  Revised 2022-03-16
  Revised 2019-09-23
  Published 2020-08-26
Clinical Mapping (CMAP)  Deprecated
  Revised 2013-10-04
 Published 2016-09-09
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Revised 2014-11-04
  Revised 2019-09-23
  Published 2017-09-08
Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Workflow Definition (EHDI-WD)  Current published version is now available at the QRPH domain section
 (includes the following profiles)  Revised 2016-11-11

Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN)
ED Physician Note (EDPN)
Nursing Note (NN)
Triage Note (TN)


  Revised 2013-11-08
  Published 2015-08-05
Immunization Content (IC)  Incorporated into the TF 2013-10-04
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2023-10-09
 (includes the following profiles)  Revised 2013-10-04

Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP)
Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS)
Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS)


  Published 2018-11-02
  Revised 2011-09-09
  Published 2018-09-13
  Published 2013-10-04
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Published 2010-08-30
  Published 2017-09-08
  Revised 2011-09-09
  Revised 2016-11-11
  Revised 2022-02-08
 (RECON)  Revised 2016-11-11
  Revised 2014-11-04
  Published 2015-08-05
  Revised 2009-08-10
  Revised 2013-10-04
  Published 2017-09-08
  Published 2011-09-09

Emergency Department Transport Summary (ETS)
Interfacility Transport Summary (ITS)



Superseded IHE Patient Care Coordination Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 11.0 (Published 2016-11-11)



Technical Framework  Revision 10.0 (Published 2014-11-04)




Technical Framework  Revision 9.0 (Published 2013-10-04)




Technical Framework  Revision 8.0 (Published 2012-08-31)




Technical Framework  Revision 7.0 (Published 2011-09-09)




Technical Framework  Revision 6.0 (Published 2010-08-30)




Technical Framework  Revision 5.0 (Published 2009-08-10)




Superseded IHE Patient Care Coordination Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-09-08
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-08-30

Antepartum Education (APE)
Antepartum Laboratory (APL)
Antepartum History and Physical (APHP)
Antepartum Summary (APS)


  Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-03-23
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-09-09
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2011-09-02
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2012-08-31
  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2013-10-04
  Rev. 2.4 Revised 2014-12-03
  Rev. 2.5 Revised 2016-11-11
  Rev. 2.6 Revised 2020-06-17
  Rev. 2.7 Revised 2021-02-26
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-09-13
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-05
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-11-09
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2018-09-13
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2011-09-09

Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN)
ED Physician Note (EDPN)
Nursing Note (NN)
Triage Note (TN)


  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2013-10-04

Composite Triage and Nursing Note (CTNN)
ED Physician Note (EDPN)
Nursing Note (NN)
Triage Note (TN)


  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-10-04
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-08-30
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2011-09-09 (incorporated into the TF 2013-10-04)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-06-17
 (includes the following profiles)  Rev. 1.1 Revised 2010-08-30

Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP)
Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS)
Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS)


 (includes the following profiles)  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2011-09-09

Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP)
Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS)
Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS)


 (includes the following profiles)  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-08-31

Labor and Delivery History and Physical (LDHP)
Labor and Delivery Summary (LDS)
Maternal Discharge Summary (MDS)


  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-08-28
  Rev. 1.1 Revised 2010-08-30
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2010-08-30
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2011-09-09
  Rev. 1.1 Revised 2010-08-30
  Rev. 2.0 Published 2008-08-22
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-09-08
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-03-06
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2020-07-17
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-09-09
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2014-08-28
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2015-08-05
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-10-04
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-16

Deprecated Patient Care Coordination Documents

  Deprecated
  Deprecated 2011-09-09


Pharmacy Archives
Current Published IHE Pharmacy Documents
Technical Framework  Not yet created
Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Revised 2014-09-29
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2013-10-11
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Published 2017-12-04
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Revised 2022-02-17
  Published 2017-12-04

Superseded IHE Pharmacy Documents
Superseded IHE Pharmacy Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev 1.1 Published 2010-12-30
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.8 Revised 2020-01-27
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27
  Rev. 1. 3 Revised 2012-09-27
  Rev 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-10-21
  Rev. 1.8 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-10-23
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-10-21
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-29
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-23
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27
  Rev 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-10-21
  Rev. 1.8 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.9 Revised 2020-01-27
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2012-09-27
  Rev 1.4 Revised 2013-10-11
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2014-09-29
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2015-10-23
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2016-10-21
  Rev. 1.8 Revised 2017-10-11
  Rev. 1.9 Revised 2020-01-27


Quality, Research and Public Health Archives
Current Published IHE Quality, Research and Public Health Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 2.0 (Published 2019-07-05)






Supplements for Trial Implementation

  Revised 2019-03-19
  Published 2019-03-19
 Revised 2018-09-07
  Published 2021-10-26
  Published 2021-10-26
  Revised 2016-09-09
 Revised 2018-09-07
 Revised 2018-09-07
  Revised 2012-09-24
  Published 2011-09-02
  Revised 2016-08-10
  Revised 2019-08-30
  Published 2016-09-09
  Revised 2020-01-07
  Revised 2022-03-16
  Revised 2021-10-26
  Revised 2019-08-30
  Revised 2016-08-10
  Revised 2011-09-02
  Revised 2016-08-10
  Revised 2021-10-01
Redaction Services (RSP)  Deprecated 2018-01-31
Research Matching (RM)  Deprecated 2018-01-31
 Revised 2018-09-07
  Revised 2021-05-14
  Revised 2021-02-24

Superseded Quality, Research and Public Health Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 0.1 (Published 2011-09-02)




Technical Framework  Revision 1.0 (Published 2018-10-19)





Superseded Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Framework Supplements (as of July 2012)

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-08-27
  Rev. 2.1 Published 2017-08-18
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-11-03
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-10-27
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2017-08-18
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2010-08-30
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2012-09-24
  Rev. 3.2 Revised 2015-10-27
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-27
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-13
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-08-27
  Published 2009-08-10
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05

 Published 2014-09-05


  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-02-01
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-10-05
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-18
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2018-09-07
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-13
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-11-03
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2015-08-27
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2017-09-27
  Rev. 2.3 Revised 2020-02-14
  Rev. 2.4 Revised 2021-02-26
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-02-14
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-08-18
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-08-27
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2010-11-04
  Rev. 2.1 Published 2012-08-27
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2015-08-27
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-09-07
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-08-30
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2011-09-02

  Published 2011-09-02


  Rev. 3.2 Revised 2015-10-27
  Rev. 3.3 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 4.1 Revised 2017-08-18
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-09-05
 Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-10-27

 Published 2014-09-05
 Published 2014-09-05


  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-10-05
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2019-03-19
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-09-13
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-11-03
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-10-27
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2016-08-10
  Rev. 3.1 Revised 2017-08-18
  Rev. 3.2 Revised 2018-10-19
  Rev. 4.1 Revised 2019-12-01

Deprecated Quality, Research and Public Health Technical Framework Supplements

  Rev 1.1 Deprecated 2014-09-05 (This document has been superseded by BFDR-E)
  Rev. 1.2 Deprecated 2014-09-05 (This document has been superseded by BFDR-E)
  Deprecated 2012-06-05 (This document has been superseded by BFDR and HBS.)
  Deprecated 2014-06-06 (This document has been superseded by EHDI.)
  Rev. 1.1 Deprecated 2018-01-31
  Rev. 1.1 Deprecated 2018-01-31


Radiation Oncology Archives
Current Published IHE Radiation Oncology Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 2.0 (Published 2020-04-07)





Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation (as of July 2012)

  Published 2022-04-13
  Published 2023-11-03
  Published 2022-12-19
  Published 2016-11-16
  Published 2019-07-01
  Published 2021-02-05

Superseded IHE Radiation Oncology Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 1.8 (Published 2014-06-26)




Technical Framework  Revision 1.7 (Published 2011-05-09)




Technical Framework  Revision 1.6 (Published 2007-08-18)



Superseded Raditation Oncology Technical Framework Supplements (as of July 2012)

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-07-01 (Incorporated into Revision 2.0 of TF Volumes)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-11-16 (Incorporated into Revision 2.0 of TF Volumes)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-11-16 (Incorporated into Revision 2.0 of TF Volumes)


Radiology Archives
Current Published IHE Radiology Documents
Technical Framework  Revision 21.0 (Published 2023-06-15)








Current Published Supplements for Trial Implementation (as of July 2012)

  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2022-07-06
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-08-06
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2019-04-25
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2021-04-30
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2019-08-09
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-01-13
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-04-21
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2019-05-13
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2019-08-09
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2019-05-30
  Rev. 1.0.0 Published 2023-10-04 
  Rev. 1.0.0 Published 2022-07-25 
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 2.2 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-07-14
Management of Radiology Report Templates (MRRT)  Revised 2018-07-27 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 20.0)
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2023-06-15
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2023-08-22
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2016-04-22
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-12-14
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2019-08-09
  Rev, 1.3 Revised 2023-06-15
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2018-07-27
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2023-06-15
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2023-06-15

Superseded IHE Radiology Documents
The Technical Framework documents below have been superseded by current versions that are available at . The documents below are presented for historical purposes. Please refer to the current versions for use in implementation.
Technical Framework  Revision 20.0 (Published 2022-03-10)








Technical Framework  Revision 19.0 (Published 2020-09-18)








Technical Framework  Revision 18.0 (Published 2019-08-09)






Technical Framework  Revision 17.0 (Published 2018-07-27)






Technical Framework  Revision 16.0 (Published 2017-08-04)






Technical Framework  Revision 15.0 (Published 2016-07-29)






Technical Framework  Revision 14.0 (Published 2015-07-24)






Technical Framework  Revision 13.0 (Published 2014-07-30)






Technical Framework  Revision 12.0 (Published 2013-09-06)






Technical Framework  Revision 11.0 (Published 2012-07-24)






Technical Framework  Revision 10.0 (Published 2011-02-18)






Technical Framework  Revision 9.0 (Published 2008-06-27)





Superseded IHE Radiology Technical Framework Supplements (as of July 2012)

  Rev. 1.1 Published 2020-07-16
  Rev. 1.1. Published 2010-11-16
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-07-24
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-06-12
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2016-09-09
  Rev 1.3 Revised 2018-07-27
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2019-04-23
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2012-06-15
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2013-09-06
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-07-30
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2018-07-27
  Published 2009-06-21
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-07-30
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-05-30
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-04-21
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2016-09-09 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 19.0)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-06-01
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2015-04-21
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2011-05-16
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2013-09-06
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-09-29
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-04-21
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2017-07-14
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2019-05-13
  Rev. 1.1 Revised 2012-06-15
  Rev. 2.1 Revised 2010-11-16
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2013-10-11
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2014-07-30
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-04-21
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2017-07-14
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2018-07-27 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 20.0)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2014-05-30 (Deprecated 2017-09-15 and replaced with WIA)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2010-09-30
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2012-07-24
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-12-15
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2014-07-30
  Rev. 1.3 Revised 2015-04-21
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2015-07-24
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2016-07-29
  Rev. 1.6 Revised 2018-07-27
  Rev. 1.7 Revised 2019-08-09 (Incorporated into TF Volumes Rev. 19.0)
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2017-06-21
  Rev. 1.2 Revised 2018-07-27
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2013-06-11
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2018-03-22
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2022-03-10
  Rev. 1.1 Published 2015-04-21
  Rev. 1.2 Published 2016-09-09
  Rev. 1.3 Published 2019-08-09
  Rev. 1.4 Revised 2020-08-06
  Rev. 1.5 Revised 2022-03-10

Superseded IHE Radiology Technical Framework White Papers

  Rev. 2.0 Revised 2014-03-07





















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Conformity Assessment


IHE International administers the IHE Conformity Assessment Scheme (CAS), which forms the basis for IHE Conformity Assessment Programs and any official certification of conformance to IHE Profiles associated with such testing programs.

The CAS Scheme consists of two volumes:

 defines the necessary processes for establishing and managing an IHE Conformity Assessment Program and for accrediting and operating testing labs.
 defines the standardized test methods for assessing conformity to individual IHE Profiles.

On the basis of the Conformity Assessment Scheme, test laboratories are accredited in accordance with the ISO/IEC 17025 standard, General Requirements for Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories. Test reports produced in accordance with this standard are accepted worldwide. IHE International authorizes designated test laboratories accredited under this standard to assess the conformity of products with selected IHE profiles.
Test Reports
Test reports for products that have completed Conformity Assessment testing administered by IHE Authorized Testing Laboratories are available .
Profiles currently available for testing under the IHE International Conformity Assessment program are:

Audit Trail and Node Authentication (ATNA)
Consistent Time (CT)
Cross-Community Access (XCA)
Cross-Community Access for Imaging (XCA-I)
Cross-Community Patient Discovery (XCPD)
Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing (XDS.b)
Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging (XDS-I)
Cross-Enterprise User Assertion (XUA)


Device Enterprise Communication (DEC)
Laboratory Analytical Workflow (LAW)
Patient Administration Management (PAM),
Patient Demographics Query (PDQ),
Patient Demographics Query HL7 v3 (PDQV3),
Patient Identifier Cross-Referencing (PIX)
Patient Identifier Cross-Referencing HL7 v3 (PIXV3)
Point-of-Care Infusion Verification (PIV)

Brief descriptions of the interoperability benefits provided by each of these profiles are provided .
Vendors interested in obtaining a test report attesting to the conformity of their products are invited to contact an IHE authorized accredited test laboratory.
Questions and feedback about the IHE Conformity Assessment program should be directed to .



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Connectathon



IHE Connectathon: A Unique Testing Opportunity
IHE Connectathons provide a detailed implementation and testing process to enable the adoption of standards-based interoperability by vendors and users of healthcare information systems. During a Connectathon systems exchange information with corresponding systems ina structured and supervised peer-to-peer testing environment, performing transactions required for the roles (IHE actors)they have selected to perform in carefully defined interoperability use cases (IHE profiles).
Connectathons are held annually in Asia, Europe and North America. Thousands of vendor-to-vendor connections are tested each year. The results of testing are published in the .
The Connectathon provides detailed validation of the participants interoperability and compliance with IHE profiles.Participating companies prepare for the event using testing software developed for this purpose. Connectathons offer vendors a unique opportunity for connectivity testing, removing barriers to integration that would otherwise often need to be addressed on site, at the customers expense. Companies taking part have responded overwhelmingly that the IHE process addresses important issues in their product development plans. The links below provide information about scheduling and participation for upcoming Connectathon events.
Connectathon Event Information
























 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Product Registry


IHE Product Registry
IHE has developed a new Web-based database of Integration Statements. The enables developers to create, manage and publish Integration Statements for their commercial and open source healthcare IT systems. It allows users to browse for these systems based on their conformance with specific IHE Actors and Profiles. The system is open for use by developers and users now!
Contactwith questions about IHE Integration Statements or the IHE Product Registry.



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 











Testing Tools


IHE has developed a growing body of software tools to facilitate testing and implementation of IHE in healthcare information technology systems. These tools are available for download and licensed by their developers for free use.
An index to the test tools available for testing IHE Profiles, along with links to the tool and documentation .





















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















IHE Domains


IHE is organized by clinical and operational domains. In each domain users with clinical and operational experience identify integration and information sharing priorities
and vendors of relevant information systems develop consensus, standards-based solutions to address them.
Each domain includes a technical committee, whose primary task is developing and documenting the solutions (known as profiles), and a planning
committee, whose primary tasks are long-term scope planning and organizing deployment activities (such as testing events and educational programs). Each domain develops and maintains its own set of  documents. Coordination among domains is the responsibility of the Domain Coordination Committee, comprising
representatives from each of the domain planning and technical committees.
The IHE domains are listed below with links to domain-specific information pages:

































 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Cardiology










IHE Cardiology was formed in 2003 to address issues specific to clinical workflow, information sharing and improved patient care in the clinical domain of cardiology. Sponsorship is provided by the .
Profiles
The IHE Cardiology committees have defined the following , which are specified in detail in the :

[CATH]  Cardiac Cath Workflow integrates ordering, scheduling, imaging acquisition, storage and viewing for Cardiac Catheterization procedures.
[ECHO]  Echocardiography Workflow integrates ordering, scheduling, imaging acquisition, storage and viewing for digital echocardiography.
[ECG]  Retrieve ECG for Display provides access throughout the enterprise to electrocardiogram (ECG) documents for review purposes.
[ED]  Evidence Documents adds Cardiology-specific options to the Radiology ED profile.
[IDCO]  Implantable Device Cardiac Observation specifies the creation, transmission, and processing of discrete data elements and report attachments associated with cardiac device interrogations (observations) or messages.
[STRESS]  Stress Testing Workflow provides ordering and collecting multi-modality data during diagnostic Stress testing procedures
[DRPT]  Displayable Reports distributes display ready (PDF) cardiology clinical reports from the department to the enterprise.

White Papers
The white papers linked below provide more detailed information regarding the IHE Cardiology Profiles.













Committees
The IHE Cardiology Planning and Technical Committees develop and maintain the . These committees are composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations who are users or developers of cardiology-related clinical IT systems and related infrastructure. The committees are international in scope. All qualified stakeholders are invited to join.
Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants serve as representatives of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the  page.
Email communication among participants in the committees takes place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee lists below.

Visit the Google Group:
 Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Dental










The IHE Dental Domain addresses the implementation of standards-based interoperability solutions to improve information sharing, workflow and patient care.
This domain, begun in 2011, is sponsored by the .
IHE Profiles
The IHE Dental Technical Framework Supplement will specify the following Dental Profiles. The technical framework is in development and is expected to be circulated for public review in November 2012.

Secure Exchange of Dental Images (SEDI) Content Profile.
DICOM E-mail Transport Integration Profile.

Educational Materials 
The IHE Dental Domain has available a presentation describing the .
Committees
The IHE Dental Domain consists of a combined .
Detailed committee responsibilities include:

Planning Subcommittee

Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposals
Determining scope of development priorities
Communication and coordination of development activities with other IHE domain




Technical Subcommittee

Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priorities
Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposals
Developing and maintaining the IHE Technical Framework



 is the address of the IHE dental listserve. To subscribe, or to suggest changes or corrections to this page, please contact Paul Bralower at dental@ihe.net.
These committees are composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations who are users or developers of healthcare IT systems and related infrastructure. The committees are international in scope. All qualified stakeholders are invited to join.
Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants serve as representatives of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the  page.
Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Devices










The IHE Devices (DEV) domain was formed in 2005 (under the name Patient Care Device) to address the integration of medical devices into the healthcare enterprise, from the point-of-care to the EHR, potentially resulting in significant improvements in patient safety and quality of care. In 2006/2007 the first profile was successfully developed, tested in a Connectathon and demonstrated at HIMSS 07, exchanging information from vital signs, physiological monitors, ventilators, infusion pumps, and anesthesia workstations with enterprise applications such as clinical information systems. This enterprise-level integration is actively being extended to point-of-care integration, as well as to new workflow integration needs, such as alert communication management.
IHE DEV is sponsored by the ,the and the .
IHE Devices Profiles
IHE Devices profiles include:

[ACM] Alert Communication Management enables the remote communication of point-of-care medical device alert conditions ensuring the right alert with the right priority to the right individuals with the right content (e.g., evidentiary data). It also supports alarm escalation or confirmation based on dissemination status, such as whether the intended clinician has received and acknowledged the condition.
[DEC] Device Enterprise Communication supports publication of information acquired from point-of-care medical devices to applications such as clinical information systems and electronic health record systems, using a consistent messaging format and device semantic content.
[DEC-SPD] Subscribe to Patient Data provides an optional extension to the DEC profile that supports a filtering mechanism using a publish / subscribe mechanism for applications to negotiate what device data they receive based on a set of client-specified predicates.
[IDCO] Implantable Device Cardiac Observationspecifies the creation, transmission, and processing of discrete data elements and report attachments associated with cardiac device interrogations (observations) or messages.
[IPEC] Infusion Pump Event Communication allows an infusion system to send detailed non-alarm information on to allow the tracking and logging of the whole history of an infusion operation.
[PIV] Point-of-care Infusion Verification supports communication of a 5-Rights validated medication delivery / infusion order from a BCMA system to an infusion pump or pump management system, thus closing the loop. Optionally, the [DEC] profile may be used to selectively monitor the status of the devices that have been programmed.
[POI] Pulse Oximetry Integrationspecifies how implementers could use the existing DEC and PCD-01 transaction to exchange pulse oximetry observation sets with clinical information systems. It constrains the existing transaction to better accommodate the content of pulse oximetry measurement observation.
[RDQ]Retrospective Data Query allows for patient specific, user-initiated queries of retrospective data stores of clinical data (i.e., retrospective data) for the purpose of aligning those data under a common time frame with the appropriate resolution to support clinical decision making based on the retrospective data. The RDQ is therefore patient centric and collects data from various sources (via multiple queries) to produce a comprehensive report that is meaningful to a given use case.
[RTM] Rosetta Terminology Mapping establishes a set of tools (Excel spreadsheets & XML files) that map the proprietary semantics communicated by medical devices today to a standard representation using ISO/IEEE 11073 semantics and UCUM units of measurement. Additionally, the Rosetta tables capture parameter co-constraints, specifying the set of units of measurement, body sites, and enumerated values that may be associated with a given parameter, thus enabling even more rigorous validation of exchanged medical device semantic content.

Each of these profiles is defined in full detail in the .
Profile and white paper development is active in the following areas:

[DPI] Device Point-of-care Integrationbrings focus on device connectivity around a patient-centric point-of-care, including first link interfaces between devices or a device manager / supervisor system. This activity includes initial development of a white paper, followed by a number of proposed profiles such as: discovery and association, data reporting, symmetric (bi-directional) communication, and external control.
[MEM] Medical Equipment Management investigates the question of how health I.T. might support the activities of clinical engineering / biomedical engineering staff, improving quality and workflow efficiency. Key topics include unique device identification, real-time location tracking, hardware/software configuration and patch management, battery management, and more.
[PCIM] Point-of-care Identity Management is an investigation of the workflows and technical means for associating the right device data with a particular patient, which is a critical patient safety requirement.
[SA] Semantic Architecture White Paper will provide an overview of the sometimes bewildering subject of nomenclature, terminology and information models that are used to enable true semantic interoperability of patient care device information. It will also lay the groundwork for the new terminology development that is required to fill gaps that have been identified, especially during [RTM] Rosetta profile development.
[WCM] Waveform Communication Managementwill extend the [DEC] profile to provide a method for passing near real-time waveform data using HL7 v2 observation messages. For example, passing wave snippets as evidentiary data in an alarm message communicated using [ACM] transactions.

PCD Planning and Technical Committees
The IHE PCD Planning and Technical Committees are responsible for developing IHE integration profiles and planning deployment activities, such as testing events and educational programs. The PCD committees are composed of users and developers of medical devices/systems and information systems. The membership of these and other IHE domain committees, along with schedules of activities, meeting agendas and minutes and working documents can be found on the . The  provide up-to-date information on all development activities.
The DEV Planning and Technical Committees have established Google Groups for e-mail communication. You can subscribe to these distribution lists by visiting each Groups home page or using the forms below:
Committee Co-Chairs
Planning Committee: Kurt Elliason, Thom Erickson, Ken Fuchs
Technical Committee: Javier Espina, Tom Kowalczyk, Stefan Schlichting
Visit the Google Group:
 Visit the Google Group:

To Learn More
The IHE Devices Domain welcomes your interest and invites you to join. Just send an email to . Additional information and links to detailed descriptions and documentation for the Devices Domain and its committees is available on IHE Wikis .



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Endoscopy










The IHE Endoscopy domain was formed in 2005 in Japan and addresses information sharing, workflow and patient care in digestive endoscopy.
IHE Endoscopy Sponsors
The IHE Endoscopy Domain is sponsored by:




IHE Endoscopy Profiles
A list of IHE Endoscopy profiles is available on the  Wiki page.
Endoscopy Committees
The Endoscopy Planning and Technical committees develop and maintain the .
Detailed committee responsibilities include:

Planning Committee

Develop and review Profile proposals
Determine scope of development priorities
Communicate and coordinate development activities with other IHE domains
Develop educational materials in support of the Domain


Technical Committee

Assess the feasibility and scope of development priorities
Develop detailed documentation of approved Profile proposals
Develop and maintain the Endoscopy Technical Framework Supplements



These committees are composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations. The committees are international in scope. All qualified stakeholders are invited to join.
Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants must be associated with an . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available in the  page. Please contact the secretary of the IHE Endoscopy committees to join the mailing list.
The Endoscopy committees maintain their working documents on dedicated pages on the . There you can find committee rosters, schedules of committee activities and works in progress.
Planning Committee: Hideto Yokoi
Technical Committee: Shinichi Omori (also serves as secretary)

Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Eye Care










The IHE Eye Care domain was formed in 2005 and is sponsored by the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO). The mission of the IHE Eye Care domain is to bring together information technology stakeholders and healthcare professionals to implement standards for communicating patient information efficiently throughout healthcare facilities, large and small.
Eye Care Profiles
IHE Eye Care integration profiles are specified in detail in the . These profiles include:
Eye Care Integration Profiles:

[U-EYECARE] Unified Eye Care Workflow  Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. It takes the best features of previously defined eye care workflows, combines them into one workflow profile, and provides more flexibility for three real world implementation models for systems such as EHRs and PACS. Includes new workflow to incorporate refractive devices with EHRs.

[B-EYECARE] Basic Eye Care Workflow  Retired  Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. B-EYECARE is a subset of the features defined A-EYECARE.

[A-EYECARE] Advanced Eye Care Workflow  Retired  Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. Requires advanced DICOM workflow based upon Modality Performed Procedure Step and Storage Commitment.
[C-EYECARE] Core Eye Care Workflow  Retired   Establishes the continuity and integrity of basis patient and procedure data in the context of an eye clinic workflow scenario. It establishes the eye care workflow for the scenario where the organization does not integrate a centralized image archive (PACS).
[EC-CHG] Eye Care Charge Posting  Establishes the workflow to transfer charge information to the clinic or enterprise charge processing systems.

[ECED] Eye Care Evidence Documents  Established the workflow to manage evidence documents. Defines information such as observations measurements, and results (i.e., evidence documents), to be output by devices, such as acquisitions systems and other workstations. The evidence documents are archived and can be retrieved for display.

[ECDR] Eye Care Displayable Report  Established the workflow to manage displayable reports. Uses DICOM Encapsulated PDF to capture eye care reports (such as Visual Fields, OCT Reports, etc.) The PDF reports are archived and can be retrieved for display.
[ECAS] Eye Care Appointment Scheduling  Established the workflow to manage patient appointment requests.
Eye Care Content Profiles:
[GEE]  General Eye Evaluation  Defines the document that is collected during a patients eye examination. It is based upon (and a super-set) of the HL7 Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) Implementation Guide which was adopted by Meaningful Use 2 (MU2). GEE also enables implementations to populate the AAO IRIS Registry for patient examination information.

[EC-Summary]  Eye Care Summary Record  Defines the document that is collected for a patients eye care summary medical record. It is based upon (and a super-set) of the HL7 Consolidated CDA (C-CDA) Implementation Guide which was adopted by Meaningful Use 2 (MU2). It is a super-set of the C-CDA Continuity of Care (CCD) document.
Current Activity
IHE Eye Care has combined the various eye care workflows into the profile named Unified Eye Care Workflow (U-EYECARE).U-EYECARE profile takes the best features of previously defined eye care workflows, combines them into one workflow profile and provides more flexibility for real world implementation models for systems such as EHRs and PACS.IHE Eye Care also supports C-CDA profiles for eye care patient visits and patient summary. These profiles are proper extensions to MU2 requirements using C-CDA 1.1.
Generate new C-CDA profile to capture Cataract Pre-Op Note, Op-Note and Post-Op notes. Will also generate an eye care general surgery OP-Note.
Plan to release for public comment end of May and Trial Implementation in August 2017.
Generate new C-CDA profile to capture Cataract Pre-Op Note, Op-Note and Post-Op notes. Will also generate an eye care general surgery OP-Note.
Plan to release for public comment end of May and Trial Implementation in August 2017.
Add anew data classification for auto-phoroptor refractive devices into U-EYECARE based upon the JOIA specification. This supplement facilities the incorporation of refractive measurements in EHR systems via a XML-based data stream.
2nd Qtr.  Begin working on eye care C-CDA workflow whitepaper based upon IHE ITI profiles, such as PIX, PDQ, XDS.b, etc.
Plans are being made for the 2017 IHE Eye Care Connectathon, which will be held on October 23-26, 2017 at the RSNA headquarters in Oak Brook, Illinois.
Committee Work
The Eye Care Planning and Technical Committees maintain information about their current work and future plans on the .
Demonstrations and Presentations
The AAO sponsors public demonstrations of real world clinical scenarios in eye care showcasing the benefits of interoperability achieved using IHE Eye Care integration profiles. Information about these demonstrations, including the one at the AAO 2016 meeting in Chicago, is .
Contact
Email eyecare@ihe.net to contact committee co-chairs and/or subscribe to the list serve.




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















IT Infrastructure










The IHE IT Infrastructure (ITI) domain addresses the implementation of standards-based interoperability solutions to improve information sharing, workflowand patient care.
This domain, begun in 2003, was originally launched bysponsor . In 2008, joined HIMSS to help sponsor this domain adding additional user representation in Europe.
Together they areresponsible for development and publication of the .
IHE IT Infrastructure Profiles
The specifies the ITI Profiles. See  for a brief description of IT Infrastructure Profiles. Implementers should refer to the  page for details.
Educational Materials
The has published a series of slide presentations for use by all parties interested in interoperability, electronic health records and health information exchange. The goal of the material is to connect the dots between the problem and the solution defined by ITI profiles. It is geared to an audience which is familiar with healthcare interoperability problems in general but is not familiar with the way IHE addresses problems or the specific profiles provided by ITI. Both MS PowerPoint slide sets as well as webinars presented by subject matter experts are available for public use.

Implementation Material
The IT Infrastructure Technical Committee supplies  which is informative content useful for implementers of ITI profiles. This includes examples, schemas and wsdl.
Committees
The ITI Planning and Technical committees develop and maintain the .
Detailed committee responsibilities include:

Planning Committee

Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposals
Determining scope of development priorities
Communication and coordination of development activities with other IHE domain
Developing educational materials in support of the ITI Domain


Technical Committee

Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priorities
Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposals
Developing and maintaining the IHE Technical Framework



These committees are composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations who are users or developers of healthcare IT systems and related infrastructure. The committees are international in scope. All qualified stakeholders areinvitedto join.
Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants must be associated with a . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available in the page. You can contact the secretary of the IHE ITI committees via email at .
The ITI committees maintain their working documents on dedicated pages on the . There you can find committee rosters, schedules of committee activities and works in progress.
Committee Co-Chairs
Planning Committee: John Moehrke, Steven Nichols
Technical Committee: Luke Duncan, Oliver Egger
Email communication among participants in the committees takes place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee lists below.
Visit the Google Group:

Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Pathology and Laboratory Medicine










IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine domain addresses information sharing and workflow related to in vitro diagnostic testing in anatomic pathology, clinical laboratories, as well as at the point of care.
IHE PaLM is sponsored by the , , and the . Together, we are responsible for development and publication of the IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine .
IHE Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Profiles



Committees
The PaLM Planning and Technical Committees develop and maintain the . Detailed committee responsibilities include:



Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposals
Determining scope of development priorities
Communication and coordination of development activities with other IHE domains






Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priorities
Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposals
Developing and maintaining the IHE Technical Framework



These committees are composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations who are users or developers of healthcare IT systems and related infrastructure. The committees are international in scope. All qualified stakeholders are invited to join. Participation is voluntary and open to IHE members only, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants serve as representatives of IHE Member Organizations. Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the . The PaLM committee maintains working documents on dedicated pages on the . There you can find committee rosters, schedules of committee activities and works in progress. For a list of products supporting IHE PaLM Profiles with published IHE Integration Statements see the .
Email communication among participants in the committees takes place through the Google Group maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee list below. Other IHE mailing lists can be found .
Committee Co-Chairs
Planning Committee: Rajesh Chandra Dash, Riki Merrick
Technical Committee: Alesandro Sulis, Kenichi Takahashi
Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Patient Care Coordination









The Patient Care Coordination (PCC) domain was established in 2005 to deal with integration issues that cross providers, patient problems or time. It deals with general clinical care aspects such as document exchange, order processing, and coordination with other specialty domains. PCC also addresses workflows that are common to multiple specialty areas and the integration needs of specialty areas that do not have a separate domain within IHE.
The PCC Domain is sponsored by:

 (Health Information Management Systems Society)
 (American College of Physicians)

IHE Patient Care Coordination Profiles
Integration profiles defined by the PCC Technical Committee are published in the . Brief descriptions of these profiles are  and more detailed summaries are .

How do I Participate?
As a Clinician / Patient Advocate
Get involved in the planning committee. This is where the clinical problems are discussed and prioritized. The planning committee is an open group and is interested in having your input! Bring us your interoperability problems! You can also help by participating in the annual HIMSS Interoperability Showcase scenario definitions.
You can do this by:

Send us a note saying youre interested so we can get you on the list-serves.
Come to face to face meetings, and attend the telephone conferences.
Submit your profile proposals by:




Fill out thistemplate.
Submit the proposal draft to.
Attend the planning meeting to help clarify and prioritize your proposal
Follow up by submitting a the formal proposal
Attend the joint planning/technical meeting to explain your idea to the technical committee



Any additional resources you can provide toward the problem will help prioritize getting your proposal solidified more quickly.
As a Hospital Administrator
In addition to getting involved in the planning committee, hold your vendor accountable. Put a statement in your RFP that indicates you want the vendor to support the actor in the profile you desire.
As an Implementer
Get involved in the Technical Committee to help ensureprofiles arefeasible and will work for you. Implement the profile, and come experience the Connectathon.

Committees
Committee Co-Chairs
Andrea Fourquet
Kendra Wyatt
email: pcc@ihe.net
Visit the Google Group:

Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Pharmacy










IHE Pharmacy (PHARM) addresses information sharing, workflow and patient care in both community and hospital pharmacies.
The Pharmacy domain, begun in 2009, is sponsored by the, theand .
Together, they areresponsible for development and publication of the .
IHE PHARM Profiles
IHE Pharmacy has published the following profile supplements for trial implementation:

Common Parts Document
Community Dispense (DIS)
Community Medication Administration (CMA)
Community Medication List (PML)
Community Medication Prescription and Dispense (CMPD
Community Medication Treatment Plan (MTP)
Community Pharmaceutical Advice (PADV)
Community Prescription (PRE)
Hospital Medication Workflow (HMW)

These documents are available for downloading on the. Brief descriptions of the profiles are.
Strategic Priorities
The Pharmacy domain currently plans work in the following areas:

Improve information exchange between healthcare providers and organizations that depend on pharmacy-related workflows and processes
Develop ways to automate collaborative workflow between physicians and pharmacists in both community and hospital pharmacy environment
Promote widespread adoption and implementation of IHE PHARM profiles in Europe, North America, Asia and worldwide
Liaison with the European Union epSOS project
The dominant themes for the next few years will involve work around community pharmacy workflows, hospital pharmacy workflows, medication documentation and hospital supply chain.

Educational Materials
The  has published a series of slide presentations for use by all parties interested in interoperability, community and hospital pharmacies and medication information management. The goal of the material is to connect the dots between the problem and the solution defined by PHARM profiles. It is geared to an audience which is familiar with healthcare interoperability problems in general but is not familiar with the way IHE addresses problems or the specific profiles provided by PHARM.


Committees
The Pharmacy Planning and Technical committees are combined. The committee develops and maintains the .
Detailed committee responsibilities include:
Planning Committee

Developing and reviewing Integration Profile proposals
Determining scope of development priorities
Communication and coordination of development activities with other IHE domain

Technical Committee

Assessing the feasibility and scope of development priorities
Developing detailed documentation of approved Integration Profile proposals
Developing and maintaining the Pharmacy Technical Framework

This combined committee is composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations who are users or developers of healthcare IT systems and related to medication management. This committee is international in scope. All qualified stakeholders areinvitedto join.
Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants serve as representatives of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the  page. You can contact the secretary and the co-chairs of the IHE Pharmacy committee via email at .
The Pharmacy committee maintains their working documents on dedicated pages on the . There you can find committee roster, schedules of committee activities and works in progress.
Email communication among participants in the committees takes place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee lists below.
Committee Co-Chairs
Planning Committee: Trudy Hagg, Jose Costa Teixeira
Technical Committee: Jurgen Brandstatter
Request to join the discussion list: 



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Quality, Research and Public Health










The IHE Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH) domain addresses the information exchange and electronic health record content standards necessary to share information relevant to quality improvement in patient care, clinical research and public health monitoring.
The QRPH domain was formed in 2007 to address use cases related to repurposing of clinical data for these critical secondary uses. Globally there is a need to gather and report on secondary data used in public health, clinical decision support, quality measure reporting and research to improve the quality, efficiency and safety of patient care delivery.
Clinical, demographic and financial information is routinely gathered and used in the process of providing clinical care. This information has significant value to public health agencies for monitoring disease patterns of known clinical processes (including incidence, prevalence and situational awareness) and for identifying new patterns of disease. Such data may be used to develop population analyses and programs for direct outreach and condition management through registries and locally determined appropriate treatment programs or protocols.
Similarly, information about care processes delivered to patients can be used to identify adherence to expected evidence-based clinical care protocols and to assess outcomes and quality of care provided by individual clinicians or groups of clinicians. Much of the data required for quality analysis exists within the clinical patient record and can be repurposed for analysis. The protocols for subsequent management of clinicians and individual patients with respect to quality data are often addressed as performance improvement or disease management initiatives.
Research and clinical studies, likewise, require identification of patterns of clinical presentation to select patients for inclusion (with consent) in research protocols. Subsequent study execution , requires infrastructure and detailed content gathering capabilities similar to those required by quality initiatives and public health.
The QRPH domain addresses specifications for patient selection, individual and aggregate date reporting, and privacy and security constraints for re-use of patient information, enabling experts in health quality, research and public health to collaborate and coordinate their activities.
The current sponsors of the QRPH domain are the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), and the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA).
Information on committee membership and current activities is available on the  or by contacting the domain secretaries at . Use the links below to download the technical framework and supplement documents published by the committee,vieworsubscribetocommitteemailinglists(viaGoogleGroups) andviewadetailedcalendarofcommitteeactivities.



IHE Quality, Research, and Public Health Profiles
The QRPH Technical Committee has published the following profile supplements. This list represents a sampling of the supplements published by the QRPH Technical Committee. Brief summary descriptions of the profiles are listed below. Detailed specifications of all QRPH profiles are contained at .

profile provides a means to capture and communicate information needed to report births and fetal deaths for vital registration purposes. BFDR-E builds upon the earlier Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDR) Profile that utilizes actors and transactions defined in the ITI Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) Profile to capture structured data using digital forms.
Clinical Research Document (CRD)describes content pertinent to the clinical research use case required within the IT Infrastructure Retrieve Form for Data-Capture (RFD) pre-population parameter.
Clinical Research Process Content (CRPC)specifies content, which is appropriate to help automate the sharing of information among systems during the clinical research process using the transactions from the Retrieve Process for Execution (RPE) profile. Using the transactions from the Retrieve Process for Execution (RPE) profile, CRPC will improve the recruitment for, setup, and performance of clinical studies.
Data Element Exchange (DEX)leverages the concept of a metadata registry to add mapping metadata to an annotated data capture form at the point of form design instead of the exchange of data instances.
Drug Safety Content (DSC)describes content pertinent to the drug safety use case required within the IT Infrastructure Retrieve Form for Data-Capture (RFD) pre-population parameter.
Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) describes a family of profiles that help to assess, track, treat, and perform quality metrics initiatives related to newborn hearing.
describes the use of ITIs RFD to report encounter-level family planning clinical visits. The profile describes the basic data elements that are needed to report quality metrics, a new Family Planning Pre-pop document in alignment with PCC conventions, and maps the data elements to CDA (consisting of the Header, Pregnancy History, Pregnancy Status Review, Coded Vital Signs, Coded Social History, Coded Care Plan, and Coded Results sections).
Healthy Weight (HW) captures and communicates information for managing and monitoring healthy weight among clinical and public health surveillance systems.
describes an exchange of context information that allows a seamless form launch and FHIR-based exchange of clinical data.
Newborn Admission Notification Information (NANI) describes the content needed to communicate a timely newborn admission notification to public health to be used by Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) screening programs.
defines the data elements to be retrieved from the EMR and transmitted to the cancer registry or to a healthcare provider.
Quality Measure Execution-Early Hearing (QME-EH) describes the content needed to communicate patient-level data to electronically monitor the performance of early hearing-loss detection and intervention (EHDI) initiatives for newborns and young children.
Redaction Services (RSP) redacts data from a document in a users current application to meet the requirements for exporting to an external system.
Research Matching (RM) publishes research process definitions to EHR systems to match patients and investigators with appropriate research studies. 
Retrieve Process for Execution (RPE)enables a healthcare provider to access a process definition, such as a research protocol and to execute automated activities, without leaving an EMR session.
 profile utilized the IHE Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) profile for retrieving and submitting forms in a standardized and structured format. This supplement is based on the work of the US Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, Standards & Interoperability (S&I) Framework SDC Initiative.
 defines a Retrieve Form for Data Capture (RFD) content profile that will specify derivation of source content from a medical summary document. by defining requirements for form filler content and form manager handling of the content.

Committees

QRPH Committee Co-Chairs:
Planning Committee: Lori Fourquet, e-HealthSign, LLC
Technical Committee: John Stamm, Epic
Visit the Google Group:
 Visit the Google Group:




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 


















Radiology









IHE Radiology was formed in 1998 to address issues of interoperability and information sharing that impact the quality of care in medical imaging. It has developed and documented standards-based solutions to these problems and organized testing and education to foster their adoption. IHE solutions are now available in hundreds of commercial radiology-related information systems and are implemented in care sites around the world.
IHE Radiology is sponsored by the .
IHE Radiology Profiles
Brief descriptions of the IHE Radiology profiles are available on the IHE Wiki at 
Profiles that have reached final text status are defined in full detail in the IHE Radiology Technical Framework found . Trial Implementation supplements are available  and supplements in their public comment phase (if any) are available .
Radiology Committees
The IHE Radiology Planning and Technical Committees are responsible for developing IHE integration profiles, maintaining the  , and planning deployment activities, such as testing events and educational programs, in the domain of radiology. The committees are composed of users and developers of imaging and information systems. The membership of these and other IHE domain committees, along with schedules of activities, meeting agendas and minutes and working documents can be found in the Radiology section of the .
These committees are composed of representatives of stakeholder organizations who are users or developers of radiology-related healthcare IT systems. The committees are international in scope. All qualified stakeholders are invited to join.
Participation is open and voluntary, but in order to remain a voting committee member, participants must take part regularly in committee meetings and teleconferences and perform committee assignments. All IHE committee participants serve as representatives of . Information on becoming an IHE Member Organization is available on the  page. You can contact the secretary of the IHE ITI committees via email at .
Committee Co-Chairs
Planning Committee: Christopher Roth, MD, Duke University Health System; Brad Genereaux, SIIM
Technical Committee: Wim Corbijn van Willenswaard, Philips Healthcare; Andrei Leontiev, Visage Imaging
Email communication among participants in the committees takes place through Google Groups maintained for this purpose. You can request an invitation to join the committee lists below.
Visit the Google Group:
 Visit the Google Group:

Mammography
The IHE Mammography Subcommittee of the IHE Radiology Technical Committee brings together users and developers of mammography imaging and information systems. They define standards-based solutions, called integration profiles, to address interoperability and information sharing problems that impact patient care in mammography. IHE drives the adoption of integration profiles by building industry consensus, educating developers and users, and testing and demonstrating systems that conform to them.
The Mammography Image Integration Profile (MAMMO) specifies how DICOM Mammography images and evidence objects are created, exchanged and used. It is currently published in a Trial Implementation draft, which will be used for testing at Connectathons in 2007. Go to download and submit comments on this supplement to the .
IHE has published a brochure, Going Digital: An IHE Guide for Mammography , which provides answers to commonly asked questions about using IHE to make the transition to digital mammography. IHE has also published a more detailed reference, the .
Subscribe to the Mammography Subcommittees email distribution list below.
Visit the Google Group:

Other Resources
Among the information resources and other tools IHE Radiology provides for users and developers of healthcare IT systems in radiology are:

 providing detailed specifications for implementing IHE Profiles
 providing guidance on implementing IHE profiles to achieve interoperability in radiology
Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise: A Primer by David S. Channin, MD, Eliot L. Siegel, MD, et al: A five-part series published in 2001 in the journal RadioGraphics, providing insight into IHE its benefits for radiology:




[]





 developed to help implementers of IHE profiles in healthcare IT systems

Contact
For further information, contact RSNA staff at .



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 






IHE Worldwide



IHE national deployment committees have been established in 17 countries across the globe. They are sanctioned by IHE International to conduct testing, education, outreach, collaboration with local health agencies and other deployment-related activities. The links at left provide access to information about these organizations and their activities.
Many IHE national deployment committees coordinate their activities through regional groupings, as shown at left. All national deployment committees also participate in the IHE Global Deployment Coordination Committee (GDC). This committee meets regularly to coordinate planning of major IHE activities and to share resources and best practices. IHE National/Regional Deployment reports can be found .
. Organizations that wish to establish and sponsor IHE national deployment committees should complete the application and send to  to learn about organizing and planning your application.
IHE International has periodically held World Summits in locations around the world to bring together leaders of IHE national deployment committees and other stakeholder organizations from 21 countries. and subscribe to receive information about future IHE International events by .
IHE Deployment Committees Worldwide







Czech Republic




























Australia
China

Korea































 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













About IHE


IHE is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standards such as DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical needs in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care providers to use information more effectively.
Vision
Enable seamless and secure access to health information that is usable whenever and wherever needed.
Mission
IHE enables health systems and care delivery networks to adopt interoperable digital workflows that support evidence- and value-based health services. IHE develops workflow-based interoperability specifications and provides testing and validation capabilities that support the governance of health IT ecosystems as the foundation for health systems, care delivery networks and industry to improve health outcomes.




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













FAQ


Frequently Asked Questions














What is IHE?
IHE is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standards such as DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical needs in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care providers to use information more effectively. Physicians, medical specialists, nurses, administrators and other care providers envision a day when vital information can be passed seamlessly from system to system within and across departments and made readily available at the point of care. IHE is designed to make their vision a reality by improving the state of systems integration and removing barriers to optimal patient care.

Why is IHE needed?
Optimal patient care requires efficient access to all relevant information. Despite the advanced state of technology, however, healthcare enterprises have not yet begun to realize the full potential of computer systems to reduce medical errors, improve the efficiency of care providers and enhance the overall quality of clinical care. To do so requires a framework for information sharing that meets the needs of care providers as well as patientsand gains acceptance among the companies that build the systems they rely on.
Standards provide the basis for such a framework, but alone do not solve the problem. In any standard there are gaps, options, room for conflicting interpretations. No standard maps perfectly to the complex and ever-changing information domain of a healthcare enterprise. Filling the gap between standards and systems integration has, until now, required expensive, site-specific interface development. To close that gap a process for building a detailed framework for the implementation of standards is needed. IHE provides that process.

What can IHE do for me?
Clinicians:
Care providers are hampered by systems that do not share information effectively. Vital patient information may be missing or difficult to access. Redundant entry of information, aside from being inefficient, leads to errors and mismatches that must be corrected or reconciled. Care decisions frequently must be made without a comprehensive view of current patient information.
IHE offers a framework for information sharing designed to optimize clinical workflow. Systems implemented in accordance with IHE can streamline the flow of clinical information, reduce errors and improve efficiency. IHE strengthens the information link between different departments-for example, between referring physicians and consulting physicians-to enable the enterprise to function as a single unit in providing optimal clinical care.
Information Technology Professionals:
Interfacing systems is one of the key challenges faced by any healthcare institutions IT staff. Understanding the differing implementations of standards in various vendor systems and trying to find ways to reconcile them is an expensive, labor-intensive and often painful process.
IHE offers a common framework for vendors, IT departments, clinical users and consultants to understand and address clinical integration needs. The IHE Technical Framework allows flexibility while ensuring that key integration needs are met.
Healthcare Administrators:
Administrators must balance technical, fiscal, clinical and personnel constraints in making operational and purchasing decisions. Inadequate systems integration impacts many aspects of a clinical department of concern to administrators: financial performance, cost of information technology, efficiency of personnel and, most importantly, the quality of care.
IHE eases this burden by offering a clear path toward acquiring integrated systems. Referring to IHE Integration Profiles in RFPs and purchasing agreements allows purchasers and vendors to agree on the interoperability of systems being acquired or upgraded, making multi-vendor, best-of-breed solutions more feasible. It enables information technology specialists to concentrate on improving the core functionality of systems, rather than developing and maintaining redundant, point-to-point interfaces. Finally, it makes it possible to implement a streamlined workflow so that care providers can make more efficient use of their time.

How does IHE work?
IHE involves an intensive, ongoing process of collaboration and communication among key parties, which can be divided into four phases:

Problem Identification: Clinicians and IT experts identify common integration problems in access to information, clinical workflow, administration and underlying infrastructure.
Integration Profile Specification: Stakeholders select standards that address each identified integration need. The technical specifications for implementing these standards are documented in the IHE Technical Framework.
Implementation and Testing: Vendors implement these profiles and test their systems with software tools and at a face-to-face Connectathon, where they test interoperability with other vendors systems.
Integration Statements and RFPs: Vendors publish IHE Integration Statements to document the integration profiles supported by their products. Users can reference integration profiles in requests for proposals, simplifying the systems acquisition process.

Learn about the .

Who is IHE?
IHE is sponsored by associations of healthcare professionals around the world and has welcomed participation by many of the leading manufacturers of imaging and information systems. Volunteer members of these associations, including clinicians and other care providers, healthcare executives and information technology experts, play a key role in guiding the development of IHE and determining priorities for integration. They collaborate with vendor representatives to identify obstacles to integration and optimal care and remove them by developing and implementing standards-based solutions for information sharing.
IHE International, the organization overseeing the development and publication of IHE Technical Frameworks worldwide, is sponsored by the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) and the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA). IHE has expanded continually and developed strong international support. The list below identifies the organizations that currently sponsor IHE initiatives and domains. Other groups representing healthcare stakeholders are invited to participate.



National/Regional IHE Initiative
Sponsors


IHE North America (IHE-NA)


American Academy of Ophthalmologists (AAO)
American College of Cardiology (ACC)
American College of Clinical Engineering (ACCE)
American College of Physicians (ACP)
American Heart Association (AHA)
American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO)
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS)
Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)
Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine




IHE Europe (IHE-EUR)


European Association of Radiology (EAR)
European Congress of Radiologists (ECR)
Coordination Committee of the Radiological and Electromedical Industries (COCIR)
Deutsche Rntgengesellschaft (DRG)
EuroPACS Association
Groupement pour la Modernisation du Systme dInformation Hospitalier (GMSIH)
Socit Francaise de Radiologie (SFR)
Societ Italiana di Radiologia Medica (SIRM)
British Institute of Radiology (BIR)
College of Radiographers
Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine
NHS Information Authority
Royal College of Radiologists (RCR)




IHE Japan (IHE-J)


Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI)
Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI)
Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare
MEDIS-DC
Japan Industries Association of Radiological Systems (JIRA)
Japan Association of Healthcare Information Systems Industry (JAHIS)
Japan Radiological Society (JRS)
Japan Society of Radiological Technology (JSRT)
Japan Association of Medical Informatics (JAMI)




IHE Domain
Sponsors


Anatomic Pathology


Groupement pour la Modernisation du Systme dInformation Hospitalier (GMSIH)
Association pour le Dveloppement de lInformatique en Cytologie et Anatomo-Pathologie




Cardiology


American College of Cardiology




Eye Care


American Academy of Ophthalmology




IT Infrastructure


Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS)




Laboratory


Groupement pour la Modernisation du Systme dInformation Hospitalier (GMSIH)
Socit dInformatique de Laboratoire (SFIL)




Patient Care Coordination


American College of Physicians
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS)




Patient Care Device


American College of Clinical Engineering (ACCE)
Health Information Management Systems Society (HIMSS)




Pharmacy


European Association of Hospital Pharmacists
Nationaal ICT Instituut in de Zorg (NICTIZ)
Phast




Quality, Research and Public Health (QRPH)


American Heart Association (AHA)
Health Information Management Systems Society (HIMSS)
Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)




Radiation Oncology


American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO)




Radiology


Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)





In addition to these sponsoring organizations, IHE boasts more than 135 member organizations. See the current list of .
Want to become an ?

How did IHE get started?
IHE began in 1998 with the mutual realization by HIMSS and RSNA that through cooperative efforts they could promote a higher level of interoperability among imaging and information systems. Both organizations were aware that public events could help drive the integration process by encouraging the participation of vendors and raising the awareness of users and purchasers. They convened a working group of their key members, industry representatives, standards experts and others. This group outlined an approach that led, a year later, to the formation of the IHE Planning and Technical committees. These committees have worked continuously and intensively since that time.

What areas of healthcare does IHE address?
IHE promotes integration within and across all units of the healthcare enterprise. The initial successes of IHE were achieved in radiology and IHE Radiology remains very active. The IHE process has since been adopted in other domains, as well. Working in coordination with the others, each of these domains will develop its own Technical Framework and Integration Profiles, and implement its own part of the testing and demonstration process. Domains frequently work together on profiles of common interest. Several IHE domains address interoperability issues of interest to multiple clinical fields. The currently active IHE domains are:















Nuclear Medicine



Further information on each of the IHE domains is available on their respective home pages, linked above.

What is the IHE Technical Framework?
The IHE Technical Framework is a detailed, rigorously organized document that provides a comprehensive guide to implementing the defined integration capabilities. The Technical Framework delineates standards-based transactions among systems (generically defined as IHE Actors) required to support specific workflow and integration capabilities. Click here to see a graphical representation of the organization of information in the Technical Framework.
IHE Actors:
Information systems or applications that produce, manage or act on information are represented as functional units called IHE Actors. Each actor supports a specific set of IHE transactions. A given information system may support one or more IHE actors.
Transactions:
Transactions are exchanges of information between actors using messages based on established standards (such as HL7, DICOM and W3C). Each transaction is defined with reference to a specific standard and additional detailed information, including use cases. This is done to add greater specificity and ensure a higher level of interoperability between systems.
See the current version of the .

What are IHE Profiles?
IHE Integration Profiles organize sets of IHE actors and transactions in order to address specific patient care needs. Integration Profiles offer a convenient way for vendors and users to reference the functionality defined in the IHE Technical Framework without having to restate all of the detail regarding IHE actors and transactions. They describe clinical information and workflow needs and specify the actors and transactions required to address them.
See brief descriptions of the current .

What are IHE Integration Statements?
IHE Integration Statements are documents prepared and published by vendors to describe the intended conformance of their products with the IHE Technical Framework. They identify the specific integration capabilities a product is designed to support in terms of the key concepts of IHE: Actors and Integration Profiles.

How do I use IHE?
How you use IHE depends on your specific role and your specific needs. Clinicians and administrators should be aware of the clinical and operational benefits that can be realized through IHE Integration Profiles and encourage their departments to demand those capabilities when acquiring or upgrading systems. Information technology professionals should know how to use IHE Integration Profiles in RFPs and purchasing agreements and should familiarize themselves with sections of the Technical Framework that describe interfaces between systems under their supervision. Developers and systems integrators should have a detailed knowledge of the sections of the Technical Framework relevant to their systems.
If IHE is about achieving a common language for integration, then an analogy can be made to how one uses various resources to understand a foreign language
Standards such as DICOM and HL7 provide the vocabulary and basic grammar for the language of integration. The Technical Framework organizes these elements somewhat like a language textbook, fitting together the most relevant pieces and eliminating confusion and ambiguity. Integration Profiles are like a phrase book for essential communications. They further organize the language to enable vendors and purchasers to communicate about systems integration-even if DICOM or HL7 is not their native language.
IHE can make systems integration faster, more efficient, less expensive and more successful. Standards-based integration solutions like those defined in IHE are flexible, durable, easier to implement and less expensive to maintain than proprietary methods. Achieving systems integration through IHE is a dramatic step toward providing optimal patient care.

How can I find out more about IHE?
The ihe.net website includes an array of information resources for developers and users of healthcare IT systems. An overview is available at .
You can learn more about IHE by attending demonstrations and presentations at the medical professional society meetings other major medical gatherings.
For further information about IHE, including how to become involved, contact the staff of IHE sponsoring organizations at .




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













Governance










Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) International, Incorporated is a non-profit organization incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois, U.S.A. IHE International enables users and developers of healthcare information technology to achieve interoperability of systems through the precise definition of healthcare tasks, the specification of standards-based communication between systems required to support those tasks and the testing of systems to determine that they conform to the specifications. The work is managed by IHE committees and sponsored by various national and international bodies.
IHE International Principles of Governance
The  describes the organization, policies and procedures of IHE International, Inc. It was officially adopted by the Board of IHE International on October 5, 2007. The current amended version was adopted April 12, 2024.
Changes to the Principles of Governance and other governance documents of IHE International can be proposed through the document change request process described . General comments can be submitted to the Secretariat of IHE International:
Christopher Carr
Director of Informatics
Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)
Board Secretary, IHE International, Inc.


Intellectual Property
The intellectual property policies of IHE International are described fully in Appendix A of the IHE International Principles of Governance. These policies include a  duty for IHE Member Organizations (section A.3).

Membership
IHE International is composed of  interested in improving the interoperability of healthcare information systems. An organization that becomes a member of IHE International may designate representatives to participate in Domain Committees and National/Regional Deployment Committees
relevant to its interests.
Organizations interested in applying to become members of IHE should complete the online form linked below. The application process requires submitting a copy of the Declaration, which binds the organization to the IHE Principles of Governance, including its intellectual property provisions, signed by a duly authorized representative of the applicant organization.




Member organization applications will be reviewed for approval at the next meeting of the IHE International Board following their submission.

Domain Committees
These committees develop and maintain the IHE Technical Frameworks addressing
interoperability in their respective clinical and operational areas of
healthcare. Currently, the active IHE domains are:












Nuclear Medicine



IHE member organizations may propose new IHE domains for consideration by the IHE International Board:




National/Regional Deployment Committees
Deployment committees based in a given country or group of countries promote
the appropriate use within their respective geographic areas of the
specifications defined in the IHE Technical Frameworks. The active IHE National
and Regional Deployment Committees include:




IHE Asia-Oceania





IHE North America


South America


Middle East




























IHE member organizations may propose new IHE national or regional deployment committees for consideration by the IHE
International Board.





IHE International Board
The  is the primary governing committee for all IHE development activities. It is composed of representatives from each of the IHE Domains, National and Regional IHE Initiatives, and IHE Sponsor Organizations.




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













IHE Process


Engaging HIT Stakeholders in a Proven Process
IHE brings together users and developers of healthcare information technology (HIT) in an annually recurring four-step process:

Clinical and technical experts define critical use cases for information sharing.
Technical experts create detailed specifications for communication among systems to address these use cases, selecting and optimizing established standards.
Industry implements these specifications called IHE Profiles in HIT systems.
IHE tests vendors systems at carefully planned and supervised events called Connectathons.


IHE also organizes demonstrations of IHE-compliant systems working in real-world clinical scenarios at medical meetings and other venues.
Domain Committees: Meeting Critical Interoperability Needs
IHE committees follow the four-step annual process to address interoperability in a variety of clinical domains:

Cardiology
Dental
Devices
Endoscopy
Eye Care
IT Infrastructure
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Patient Care Coordination
Pharmacy
Quality, Research and Public Health
Radiation Oncology
Radiology
Surgery

IHE invites clinical and technical domain experts to become leaders in this work by participating in IHE domain committees or reviewing the documents they publish for public comment. 
More than100 -professional societies, government agencies, provider organizations, HIT companies and others-have joined the IHE initiative worldwide. 
Integration Profiles: A Framework for Interoperability
IHE Profiles provide a standards-based framework for sharing information within care sites and across networks. They address critical interoperability issues related to information access for care providers and patients, clinical workflow, security, administration and information infrastructure. Each profile defines the actors, transactions and information content required to address the clinical use case by referencing appropriate standards.
See capsule descriptions of . IHE Profiles are compiled into IHE Technical Frameworks-detailed technical documents that serve as implementation guides and  freely available online.
Connectathons: Testing Interoperability and Conformance
IHE has been testing the interoperability of HIT systems for more than a decade. At  held regularly in several locations internationally, trained technical experts supervise testing of vendor systems, making use of advanced testing software developed by IHE and several partner organizations. More than 250 vendors worldwide have implemented and tested products with IHE capabilities.
For more information contact .
Product Registry and User Handbooks: Advice for Purchasers and Implementers
The  provides essential information for IT administrators and executives responsible for purchasing and integrating systems at healthcare sites and health information exchanges. Detailed results of testing at IHE Connectathons over the past several years in Europe, North America and Asia are made available in this easy-to-use online database. These results are cross-linked to IHE Integration Statements- conformance commitments of the IHE capabilities of commercial products-from dozens of vendors worldwide.
IHE also provides domain-specific guidance for purchasers and implementers of HIT systems in the form of .
Supporting Health Information Networks Worldwide
Carefully implemented interoperability standards are the foundation of EHRs, PHRs (personal health records) and health information exchanges being established around the world. IHE has developed a foundational set of profiles for secure exchange of patient information across enterprises. IHE profiles support health information networks in Canada and the U.S.A, as well as several Asian and European countries, and have been accepted as requirements by the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services for federal procurement of healthcare IT systems.



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













Member Organizations


IHE International is composed of more than 100 member organizations from around the world committed to improving the interoperability of healthcare information systems. An organization that becomes a member of IHE International may designate representatives to participate in Domain Committees and National/Regional Deployment Committees relevant to its interests. 






Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS)
Canada Health Infoway
IHE Catalyst
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC)
Australian Digital Health Agency











American Academy of Ophthalmology
American Association of Physicists in Medicine
American College of Radiology
Australian Digital Health Agency
Canada Health Infoway Inc
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Centrum e-Zdrowia (e-Health Centre)
COCIR
College of American Pathologists
European Society of Radiology
Finnish Social and Health Informatics Association
GUIG / Entscheiderfabrik
Intrahealth International
Japanese Association of Healthcare Information Systems Industry (JAHIS)
Michigan Health Information Network Shared Services
Ontario Health
OR.NET E.V.
Pan African Health Informatics in Africa (HELINA)
PATH
Radiology Business Management Association
Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine
The MITRE Corporation
The Sequoia Project
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
U.S. Social Security Administration







3fs Nordic AB
A-Thon SRL
Accuray
Advarra
AGFA Healthcare
ahdis ag
Arterys
B. Braun Medical
Baxter Healthcare
BD
Biomerieux
Blackford Analysis Ltd
BrainLAB
Burai LLC
By Light Professional IT Services Inc.
Canon Medical Systems
Carl Zeiss Meditec AG
Ceiba Healthcare Inc.
Cerner
Change Healthcare
CliniSys
CodaMetrix
CodeWerk Software Services and Development GmbH
Connexall
Corista
Cosylab d.d., Control System Laboratory
Draeger Medical Systems Inc.
ecGroup Inc.
Edenlab
Elekta AB
Epic Systems Corporation
European IT Consultancy EITOC GmbH
Everrtech Software Pvt Ltd
Founda Health BV
Fresenius-Kabi
Fresenius Vial SAS
Gabos Software SP. Z O.O.
GE
Gnomon Informatics SA
Guard RFID Solutions
HLN Consulting, LLC
Hyperfine, Inc.
IBA Particle Therapy
IBM Watson Health
ICU MEDICAL, Inc.
InnoVision Medical
Insygnia Consulting
Intepro Solutions Inc
Interlinx Systems Inc
Interoplab B.V.
InteropEhealth
Kereval
Kno2
Laitek Inc.
LJB Consulting Inc.
Logemed Sarl
Lyniate
M.H. Nusbaum & Associates Ltd
MedAllies, Inc.
Medsynaptic Pvt Ltd
Mevion Medical Systems
Mindray DS USA, Inc
NIPK Electron Co
Optimization Zorn Corporation/Oz Systems
OrganAI Health
PACSHealth LLC
Paul Schluter Consulting
Philips
Physician Technology Services Inc
Pomegranate E-Consulting LLC
Practical Health Interoperability LLC
Quantek Systems
Qvera
R Group
Rachel Foerster & Associates Ltd
Rad AI
RADiQ Image Information Systems Pvt. Ltd
Raster Images Pvt. Ltd.
RaySearch Laboratories
Rhoads Systems Inc
SanctiPHI Tech Inc
Sectra Imit
Shanghai United Imaging Healthcare Co.
Siemens Healthineers
Spok
Varian Medical Systems
Vernetzt LLC
ViewRay
Visage Imaging
VISUS Health IT GmbH
x-tention Informationstechnologie GmbH
Zeora BVBA







Chongqing University
Department of Radiology  Duke University Hospital
Department of Radiology  The Mount Sinai Hospital Icahn School of Medicine
Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires
Pentacomp Systemy Informatyczne S.A.
UCSF Radiology and Biomedical Imaging
University Hospitals of Geneva
University of Pennsylvania







Baystate Health
CEN / TC 251
China National Institute of Standardization
Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium
Danish Standards Foundation
GS1 Global
GS1 Netherlands
GS1 Switzerland
Health Level 7 Inc.
HealthShare Exchange of Southeastern PA, Inc.
InteropSante
IVD Industry Connectivity Consortium (IICC)
National Council For Prescription Drug Programs
National Institute of Standards & Technology
National Quality Forum (NQF)
NEMSIS Technical Assistance Center
Organization for the Advancement of Structure Information Standards
Regenstrief Institute
Research Innovation and Development for Health
SAFE-BioPharma Association
Saudi Standards Metrology and Quality
SNOMED International
Underwriters Laboratories























 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 













Patent Disclosure Process


The intellectual property policies of IHE International, Inc. are described in the . These policies include a patent disclosure obligation for IHE member organizations. This page describes the process used by IHE Domain Committees and their secretaries to ensure adherence to IHEs patent disclosure policy.
Duty to Disclose Known Patents
IHEs Principles of Governance include an intellectual property policy that defines a duty to disclose certain known patents or patent applications owned, controlled or that can be sublicensed by the Member Organization. This obligation applies to patents or applications that involve Necessary Claims, meaning that in developing a system compliant with some  document (including Supplements), an implementer would necessarily infringe upon that patent.
Committee Participants Represent IHE Member Organizations
Every domain committee member serves as a representative of an IHE Member Organization. In applying for membership, these organizations have all agreed to abide by the , including specifically the intellectual property policy and the patent disclosure obligation. It is the duty of the domain Secretary to maintain committee rosters for that domain and to ensure that all committee members are in fact representatives of .
Committee Secretary Reminds Committee Participants of Policy
The domain committee Secretary is responsible for reminding committee members of the patent disclosure policy in writing (via email) and at face-to-face meetings (using the presentation slides provided below) at key milestones throughout the development process of Technical Framework documents, including:

When a call is issued for new Profile Proposals
When draft Profile Proposals are being selected for Supplement Development
When Supplements are being prepared for publication for Public Comment
When Supplements are being prepared for publication for Trial Implementation
When Supplements are being advanced to Final Text for incorporation into Technical Framework volumes

The duty to disclose applies both to Profiles under development and to those already published. In the case of new Profiles, the mandated timing for disclosure is prior to their publication for Public Comment. Committee members are responsible for promptly disclosing patent claims relating to already published Profiles whenever they become aware of such claims.
Disclosures and Letters of Assurance
In cases where an IHE Member Organization asserts a patent claim as being necessarily infringed by implementers of systems compliant with an IHE Technical Framework document, its committee representatives shall be responsible for formally disclosing any such patent claim. If allegations regarding assertion of claims pertaining to previously undisclosed patents by an IHE Member Organization reach the Secretary of an IHE Domain or the Secretary of the IHE International Board, the Domain Secretary will request that the Member Organization in question make a formal patent claim disclosure by submitting a letter of assurance using the form linked below. The letter of assurance will specify the scope of the asserted claim and associated licensing terms. Refusal to formally disclose a patent claim, while asserting claims of necessary infringement by implementers of systems compliant with IHE Technical Framework documents, may be grounds for the IHE International Board to expel the offending IHE Member Organization.
Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory Terms
The Principles of Governance stipulate that disclosed patents must be made available by license to other IHE Member Organizations under reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, including a condition of reciprocity. These provisions are described fully in Appendix A, section A.3 of the .
Committees Consult Disclosed Patent Information
Committee secretaries and domain planning and technical committee co-chairs are instructed to regularly consult the posted table of disclosed patent information and to make their committees aware of any disclosed patents that may be relevant to planned development activities in the domain.
Related Materials





Contact
For further information about the IHE patent disclosure process, contact:
Chris Carr
IHE International Board Secretary/Director of Informatics, RSNA




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 















Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE)


IHE is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information. IHE promotes the coordinated use of established standards such as DICOM and HL7 to address specific clinical needs in support of optimal patient care. Systems developed in accordance with IHE communicate with one another better, are easier to implement, and enable care providers to use information more effectively.
 and improve the interoperability of healthcare information systems.



























































 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 









IHE in the News


The following is a collection of press releases by IHE and links to articles about IHE in external publications.


23 January 2024

12 September 2022

16 March 2020
HL7 Blog,25 September 2018 Wayne Kubick
HIMSS Blog,31 August 2018 John Moehrke
Healthcare Informatics,6 June 2018
Healthcare Informatics,14 March 2018
Press Release,7 March 2018
HIMSS,27 February 2018
lifeIMAGE Blog,19 February 2018
Press Release Newswire,7 February 2018
HIMSS Blog,5 February 2018 Celina Roth
Press Release,5 February 2018
Health Data Management,1 February 2018
RSNA News,30 January 2018
Press Release,23 January 2018
HIMSS Blog,15 January 2018 Didi Davis
Joint Initiative CouncilPress Release,January 2018
HIMSS Blog,1 November 2017 John T Donnelly
Zeora Blog,1 November 2017 Jose Costa Teixeira
Hinacom,21 October 2017
Tech Target,25 September 2017
PatientSafe News,11 July 2017
HIMSS Blog,26 June 2017 Celina Roth
Merge Healthcare Blog,27 March 2017
HIMSS News, 17February 2017
Press Release,06February 2017

Press Release, 15 September 2016

Press Release, 15 June 2016

IICC News,04 August 2015

Official Journal of the European Union,28 July, 2015

Healthcare IT News,23 January 2015

ehealth INSIDER, 10 July 2013

PULSE IT, 08 July 2013

European Hospital, 22 May 2013

European Hospital, 08 May 2013

Healthcare IT News, 19 February 2013




















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713




























 







Search the site

















































































 




































































 













 






Privacy Policy



About this Privacy Policy
This Privacy Policy details how we process Personally Identifiable Information (PII), including the personal data of individuals residing in the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA) when they interact with our services.
In principle, IHE:

Collects, uses and stores the minimum amount of personal data that is necessary for one or more legitimate business purposes and to comply with legal obligations.
Limits who has access to the personal data in our possession to only those who need it for legitimate business purposes.
Protects personal data through physical and technical security measures tailored to the sensitivity of the personal data we hold.
Communicates with our employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and others about how we intend to use personal data in our day-to-day operations.
Takes reasonable steps to ensure our personal data is accurate and up-to-date.
Integrates privacy in the design of our activities and projects that involve the use of personal data.

If you are based in the EU or the EEA and you are interacting with IHE as a provider of services or goods, or us monitoring your behavior, then the related processing of your personal data is governed by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and its implementing national laws.
Types of Information Collected
We recognize personal data as any information related to an identified or identifiable individual. Depending on the context of your interactions with IHE, we collect and use different types of personal data from website visitors, members of our organization and others that interact with us.
Types of information we collect:

Membership information: when applying for an IHE membership you will be asked to complete the appropriate form providing your contact and professional information.
Accounts on our website: All members have the possibility to create an online account. Besides the information you provide us when becoming a member, we also process your username, passwords, and we log your activity on the website.
Information collected automatically: there is other information that we collect automatically when you visit our site through the use of cookies or similar technologies, such as your IP address, browser type, access times. See our Cookies Policy for more information

Why we process your personal data
The purposes for which we collect and use your personal data may vary depending on the type of relationship you have with us, such as if you are one of our members or a website visitor.
See below how we use your information:

We process personal data of applicants for membership for the purpose of verifying their credentials to see if they meet the criteria to become members and for the purpose of processing the membership fee.
We process personal data of our members when they log into their online accounts for the purpose of managing their membership and providing them membership related services.
We process personal data in the context of marketing activities for the purposes of marketing our services and of communicating with our members and customers.
We process personal data of our members and customers to better discern and serve their needs and improve our products and services.
We process personal data collected through cookies placed by our website to support the operation of our website and to analyze the traffic patterns on our site so as to provide better service to visitors and members. See our Cookies Notice for more information
We process personal data to maintain professional day-to-day business operations with our partners and vendors.
For archiving purposes according to our internal regulations as a nonprofit membership organization.

We process personal data to comply with laws and enforcement requests, to enforce applicable agreements and policies for our services, to prevent fraud, and to comply with all applicable laws; including tax and other local regulations.
Our policy towards children
Our services are not directed to children.
Disclosures to Third Parties
At times, IHE engages third-party contractors, service providers, and other vendors to help us accomplish our business objectives. There are other circumstances where we are required by law to disclose personal data to third parties such as public bodies or judicial authorities.
We engage with our agents, representatives, contractors, service providers or third parties (such as RSNA, IHE USA, HIMSS, IHE Europe) for the following services:

authorization of credit card transactions (US based),
membership management (US based)

If the engagement involves the transmission of personal data, we require the service provider to treat that data consistent with this Policy. A contract to protect the personal data is executed before any data is disclosed, if that vendor will process personal data of individuals in the EU/EEA on our behalf.
IHE may also disclose information in special cases when it has a good-faith belief that such action is necessary to: (a) conform to legal requirements or comply with legal process; (b) protect and defend our rights or property; (c) enforce the Website Terms and Conditions of Use; or (d) act to protect the interests of our users or others. Occasionally IHE may be required by law enforcement or judicial authorities to provide personally identifiable information to the appropriate governmental authorities. We will disclose such information upon receipt of a court order or subpoena in cooperation with a law enforcement investigation. IHE reserves the right to report to law enforcement agencies any activities that we in good faith believe to be unlawful.
Your European Privacy Rights
If you reside or otherwise find yourself in the European Economic Area (EEA), IHE is committed to process your personal data lawfully and facilitate the exercise of your rights granted by the European General Data Protection regulation (GDPR). You can contact us at any time to discuss your privacy concerns.
Legal basis for data collection and use:
We only collect and use personal data when there is a fair and legal basis for its collection and use, for instance, when the collection of personal data is necessary to become member of the Society, to meet our legitimate interests to send marketing material, to comply with legal obligations or when we have your authorization. See below the legal basis for each collection:

Membership information: necessity to enter into a contract or for the performance of a contract and legitimate interest
Business information: necessity to enter into a contract or for the performance of a contract
Information collected automatically: consent

Privacy rights under the European regulation:
Transparency and the right to information: we provide notice to our members, website users and other third parties who interact with us of how we use personal data in our day-to-day activities at the time of collecting personal data, or as soon thereafter as possible. We also publish this privacy notice for a greater transparency.
Right to access, rectification, restriction of processing, erasure, and data portability: if you are based in the EEA we provide you with access to your own personal data. In addition, we will rectify your personal data when it is incorrect or inaccurate, and we will ensure the right to erasure, portability and to restriction of processing when these rights are not incompatible with other legal obligations.
Right to object and withdraw consent at any time: for all marketing materials, you can opt-out anytime, and free of charge. The right to object for other processing activities will be balanced to ensure that it is not incompatible with local regulations or our legitimate interests.
These requests should be submitted as follows:

Opt-out of marketing communications: you can opt-out anytime by following the opt-out instructions in our commercial e-mails or contacting us. You will still continue to receive emails relevant to course registrations or purchases (e.g. registration confirmations or purchase receipts) or necessary to your continued membership in IHE (e.g. dues notices).
To exercise the rest of your rights: you should send a communication in writing to:

Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise
820 Jorie Boulevard #200
Suite 200
Oak Brook, Illinois 60523, USA
630-571-2570
secretary@ihe.net
In order to fulfil this request,we may require you provide us information to verify your identity and specify your request. We will attend to your request in a timely manner within 30 days after receiving your request. If for any reason we need to extend this period of time, we will contact you.
If you are not satisfied with our response,you have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority of your habitual residence, place of work or place of the alleged infringement.
International Transfers of Personal Data
If you are located outside the United States and you interact with our website or provide us personal data, then your personal data may be transferred to the United States.
We transfer your personal data to the United States whenever you interact with us.
The US has not sought, nor obtained adequacy status from the European Union. The EU-US Privacy Shield framework obtained an adequacy decision. The level of protection of your personal data is not deemed equivalent to the one in the EU, unless the receiving organization is self-certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield or implements other approved transfer mechanisms. As a not-for-profit organization, we are not able to adhere to the EU-US Privacy Shield Principles, nor implement other transfer mechanisms.
We transfer your personal data on the basis of the derogations in Article 49 GDPR, particularly:

Necessity to enter and for the performance of a contract for registration information to participate to our events; for processing personal data of our members to maintain their relationship with our organization, provide them services including when they log in to their member accounts; and also for processing personal data for online and offline courses.
Explicit consent, for newsletter subscribers

As for safeguards to your personal data, we directly apply the GDPR provisions to your personal data. As a matter of principle, we do not engage in any onward transfers regarding your data, beyond the access that our processors have to your data. We select carefully our processors and we require that provide equivalent safeguard mechanisms.
Data Security
IHE is committed to the security, confidentiality and integrity principle. We take commercially reasonable precautions to keep all information obtained from our members, conference participants, app users and online visitors secure against unauthorized access and use and we periodically review our security measures.
Security measures:
We use identification and authentication processes to insure that access to PII is limited to IHE employees who require it. Offsite access to sensitive information requires the use of a VPN. When compiling statistics, we anonymize member data and report on aggregate measures. We employ encryption technology to protect data at rest and in transit.
You should be aware, however, that perfect security does not exist on the Internet, and third parties may unlawfully intercept or access transmissions or private communications.
This site contains links to other sites. While IHE strives to link only to sites that share our high standards and respect for privacy, IHE is not responsible for the privacy practices employed by other sites.
IHE MAKES NO CLAIMS, PROMISES OR GUARANTEES ABOUT THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS OR ADEQUACY OF THE CONTENTS OF ITS SITE, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS AND OMISSIONS IN THE CONTENTS OF THIS SITE. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, IMPLIED, EXPRESSED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND FREEDOM FROM COMPUTER VIRUS, IS GIVEN WITH RESPECT TO THE CONTENTS OF THIS WEBSITE OR ITS HYPERLINKS TO OTHER INTERNET RESOURCES. REFERENCE IN THIS WEBSITE TO ANY SPECIFIC COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS, PROCESSES OR SERVICES, OR THE USE OF ANY TRADE, FIRM OR CORPORATION NAME IS FOR THE INFORMATION AND CONVENIENCE OF THE PUBLIC AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE ENDORSEMENT OR RECOMMENDATION BY IHE.
Retention Periods
IHE applies the storage limitation principle in order to retain personal data in our records only for the length of time required to fulfill the purpose for which the data was collected.
According to our retention policy:
We only keep personal data in our records as long as they are necessary for the purposes they have been processed. The retention period depends on the context in which we process data, for instance:

3 years: complaints involving active members
Permanent: membership application. Only this information is stored permanently for archiving purposes according to our internal regulations.

Changes to this Policy
We reserve the right to modify this Privacy Policy at any time. We will duly inform you of any changes.
IHE may occasionally update this privacy statement and other statements referenced by it as new services and programs are introduced.
These changes will be notified to you via an email communication and/or by placing a prominent notice on the Site. The time stamp you see on the policy will indicate the last date it was revised.



















 









 2024 IHE International  |  Email:  | 1502 W. Broadway, Suite 102, Madison, WI 53713



















