DARWIN EU delivers real-world evidence from across Europe on diseases, populations and the uses and performance of medicines.
This enables EMA and national competent authorities in the European medicines regulatory network to use these data whenever needed throughout the lifecycle of a medicinal product.




 















 





 







 





  About

  
































  Data

  











































































Home 




















 





The  (EMA) and the  established a coordination centre to provide timely and reliable evidence on the use, safety and effectiveness of medicines for human use, including vaccines, from real world healthcare databases across the European Union (EU).This capability is called the Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network (DARWIN EU).

Expression of Interest Call now open for Data Partners.

More information can be found .












Latest News













				European Health Data Space DARWIN EU will connect the European medicines regulatory network to the European Commission's European Health
								 










				How to join the data network? The Open Call for DPs described in this document welcomes expressions of interest from any data custodian in
								 










				Data Network A strategic priority for DARWIN EU is to expand the scope of the network for generation of new evidence supporting the
								 




























What will DARWIN EU deliver?


DARWIN EU delivers real-world evidence from across Europe on diseases, populations and the uses and performance of medicines.

This enables EMA and  in the  to use these data whenever needed throughout the lifecycle of a .
DARWIN EU supports regulatory decision-making by:

establishing and expanding a catalogue of observational data sources for use in medicines regulation;
providing a source of high-quality, validated real world data on the uses, safety and  of medicines;
addressing specific questions by carrying out high-quality, non-interventional studies, including developing scientific protocols, interrogating relevant data sources and interpreting and reporting study results.

The range of approved healthcare databases enabling distributed data access via DARWIN EU will evolve and expand over time.
The former HMA/EMA Big Data Task Force originally recommended developing DARWIN EU. The creation of DARWIN EU features in the EMA-HMA Big Data Steering Group workplan and the European medicines agencies network strategy to 2025.
For more information:







Timelines





In February 2022, EMA selected a service provider (Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam) to deliver DARWIN EU, following a call for tender.
In 2022 and 2023, the service provider will:

set up DARWIN EU's operational processes and governance structures;
run studies with data from DARWIN EU, to support EMA scientific committees and down-stream decision-makers in their decision-making and support the establishment of the EHDS.

In 2024, EMA expects DARWIN EU to be fully operational. At this stage, DARWIN EU will routinely support the evaluation work of EMA's scientific committees and the .
Organisations such as the ,  and payers may make use of DARWIN EU in the longer term.
Figure 1: Overview of DARWIN EU timelines


2021





Project initiation
Select service provider to deliver the DARWIN EUCoordination Centre
Establish DARWIN EU Advisory Board
Support EDHS pilot




2022





DARWIN EU establishment
Define governance structures, contract models and processes
Run early studies to support EMA committees
Provide first catalogue of real world data sources and standard analyses
Establish connectivity with EHDS




2023





Developing and using DARWIN EU
Launch publicly-available DARWIN EU website
Work with established data permit authorities
Test business process to access and analyse healthcare data
Run studies to support more EMA committees




2024





Full operation mode
Conduct studies and answer questions to support EMA scientific committees and 
DARWIN EUfully operational with involvement of data partners and medicine regulators




2025





Leverage the EU Health Data Space
Increase geographical coverage, scope and regulatory uses of healthcare data in DARWIN EU













Related content
  





















External links
  



















Related documents
  





List item

  

 First published: 12/03/2021 EMA/48625/2021 




List item

  

 First published: 20/01/2020 EMA/520966/2019 




List item

  

 First published: 21/12/2020 







 






        Last Updated: 15 December 2023    













 


Disclaimer
The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted as reflecting the views of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 







 
































































            
    2024 -     2023
    European Medicines Agency. All rights reserved. Certain parts are licensed under conditions to the European Medicines Agency.
            









 















 





 







 





  About

  
































  Data

  











































































AboutWho is Involved? 




















 





























Who is involved?

DARWIN EU has multiple actors: ,  , , and .
Data Partners
DARWIN EU collaborates with data partners who help generate real-world evidence that can be used in scientific evaluations and regulatory decision-making. Data partners are partners who have access to raw data in-house or remotely, through ownership, public contract, third-party agreement or commercial license. Data partners enable DARWIN EU to use their data in its scientific studies by executing analytic packages, and provide analysis results to the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre, in accordance with data protection and governancerules. For more information see the  page.
Coordination Centre
The has a key function in DARWIN EU. The CC provides a structure for developing and managing the network of data partners, including their training on processes and study methods, evaluating their eligibility for performing studies, and monitoring the data quality. The CC will also be responsible for implementing and operating all the steps in the , from feasibility requests for studies up until the final delivery of the study report to the EMA, where results are to be integrated within the EU regulatory decision making process. In addition, the Coordination Centre will be responsible for methodological developments for DARWIN EU, as directed and instructed by EMA, and to interact with other relevant initiatives. The Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam was selected as contractor in a public tendering procedure published in June 2021 to setup the Coordination Centre for the EMA. For more information see the  page.
European Medicines Agency
The  is responsible for providing leadership and direction, setting standards for DARWIN EU, contracting, instructing and overseeing the Coordination Centre and monitoring its performance. For questions raised by the EU Medicines Regulatory Network requiring additional evidence to support regulatory decision-making, the EMA will coordinate the definition of the research question and define, with the requesting body, the study objectives and possible study design options such as the study population, exposures, outcomes and statistical measures. This information will be communicated to the Cordination Centre for a further feasibility assessment. Based on the feasibility assessment, the EMA, in consultation with the Cordination Centre, will decide on the relevance of conducting a study, specify eligibility criteria for the databases to be included, identify relevant databases and define the evidentiary standards to be applied in the studies (e.g., data quality). The EMA will process the results of the analyses and the report of specific studies, feeding results into decision-making, as appropriate. To support the establishment of the DARWIN EU, a  has been set up by EMA.
EU Medicines Regulatory Network
The EU Medicines Regulatory Network includes the EMA (encompassing its scientific committees and working parties), national competent authorities (NCAs) of Member States in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the European Commission. During the operation of DARWIN EU, the need for additional real-world evidence identified within the EU Medicines Regulatory Network to support regulatory activities will be submitted to and further discussed with EMA.
Other Organisations
Interactions between EMA and other organisations, institutions and projects can take place to improve the infrastructure, methodological standards and operational processes of the DARWIN EU network. These interactions could take place with, for example:

the  (EHDS), of which DARWIN EU will be a key user and will need to be fully integrated and use the services provided by the EHDS;
ongoing EU and national projects in scope of DARWIN EU and relevant to the quality, transformation, maintenance or analysis of real-world datasets, including European networking initiatives such as the (EHDEN) project, European platforms for registries or the European Reference Networks (ERNs), which has established registry platforms for rare diseases;
the  (ENCePP) network, for integration and continuously updating of good methodological practice in pharmacoepidemiology, identification of data sources and registration of studies;
regulatory authorities in third countries, to learn from their experience and to integrate learnings such as governance and methodological aspects.
 






        Last Updated: 26 March 2023    













 


Disclaimer
The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted as reflecting the views of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 







 
































































            
    2024 -     2023
    European Medicines Agency. All rights reserved. Certain parts are licensed under conditions to the European Medicines Agency.
            









 















 





 







 





  About

  
































  Data

  











































































AboutEuropean Health Data Space 




















 





























European Health Data Space

DARWIN EU will connect the  to the European Commission's , an initiative to promote better exchange and access to different types of health data.
While the needs and use cases of medicine regulators and decision-makers will drive DARWIN EU's development, DARWIN EU also contributes to developing the EHDS and the joint action to deliver European principles for the secondary use of health data, known as .
Acting as an early flagship 'pathfinder' for the EHDS, DARWIN EU will enable the exchange of healthcare data for use in healthcare delivery, policy-making and research across Europe, while fully complying with data protection requirements.
EHDS HealthData@EU Pilot
Recently, the EHDS2 Pilot Project was initiated which will run till September 2024. This project is led by the French Health Data Hub (HDH)a French organisation that aims to ensure easy, unified, transparent and secure access to health data to improve quality of care and support for patients.
Multiple consortiums are involved in the EHDS pilot, from EU agencies (EMA included), national platforms and international research infrastructures. The consortium will aim to answer the European Commissions call for project to concretely test the EHDS in practice by creating a network of data platforms at European level, by conducting cross-border research use cases, and provide recommendation for the future EHDS.
The pilot project will create the first European network for secondary use of data projects, containing a metadata search portal, data access request portal and other central services. Within the network, project leaders will be able to querymetadata catalogues of all nodes and ask for data access in several nodes with a single data application form.
EMA will be an authorised participant and consortium partner within the EHDS2 pilot project. EMAs use case on thrombosis (see below) will aim to leverage DARWIN EU, among other platforms. DARWIN EU and the EHDS2 pilot are two complementary and synergetic projects for the secondary use of health data.
EMA Use Case
EMAs use case will aim to investigate the natural history of coagulopathy and use of antithrombotic agents in COVID-19 patients and persons vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2. The study has previously been conducted via the EMA Framework Contract and the results of this study may be used for benchmarking (). This is an important use case that will test the wayDARWIN EU will be integrated in EHDS in the future. Six specific objectives of the study were presented, increasing in levelof complexity, which will be chosen by data partners while considering their capability and the data they hold.
It will be important to evaluate how the data from the different nodes will be combined, considering data available in the Common Data Model (CDM) via DARWIN EU and data available in other nodes in native format. It was also clarified that the CDM is not a pre-requisite for becoming a node in the EHDS pilot. In the future, some data sources, such as some registriesfor example will not be converted into a CDM. The objective will be to see how the different data sources can be combined in a single study in a meaningful way.
For more information:



 






        Last Updated: 27 March 2023    













 


Disclaimer
The content on the website is the responsibility of the DARWIN EU Coordination Centre and cannot be interpreted as reflecting the views of the European Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Regulatory Network. 







 
































































            
    2024 -     2023
    European Medicines Agency. All rights reserved. Certain parts are licensed under conditions to the European Medicines Agency.
            





